"American Outlaws" -- by Roderick Taylor and John Rogers The Rangers plunge into thick woods. Branches slap at them, but the sound of gunfire keeps them going. Captain Malcolm is still in the lead, flanked by two young men who are obviously brothers. The big, handsome one is the skinny one with the lopsided hair is They break through the other side of the woods, emerging behind a rickety set of fence-post fortifications. Instantly tears apart the trees around them. The Captain's horse goes down, and the Younger brothers dive and roll to hide beneath the palisade. The Captain, still alive, has fallen beyond the wooden shield. Cole scrambles through the savage rifle fire, grabs Captain Malcolm, and hauls him behind the fortification. (bellowing) Fall back into the woods! Out of your saddles before you're shot out of 'em! The Rangers leap from their saddles as a new sound starts -- a dull roar that grows and approaches and as, unbelievably, trees and horses and men go down in a heap! Gatling! They've got a Gatling! Dammit, this stopped being fun about two years ago! Some men are crawling to the fortifications, others are staying in the woods. The Captain pokes his head up to take a look. With him At the top of which, about a hundred fifty yards off, is a three man Gatling crew. Squads of Union soldiers are beginning to make their way down the hillside. And just to their right is an with a burning fuse -- And with a whistle the cannonball the forest and just behind the Rangers. Some of the men are screaming from injury and panic. Cole! Bob! You boys okay? Hell, take more than a cannon to kill the Younger brothers, sir! think the cannon's doing a pretty good job, Cole. full-blooded Indian, crawls up next to them. Some Indian tracker you turned out to be, Tom. You pay me to find you Bluecoats. There they are. from the Gatling chews up the trees and fencing, driving their heads down. They're using the Gatling and the cannon to cover their advance. We're pinned unless we take them out! Cole peers through the rails. Those gunners are too far away... Get me the James boy. You want Jesse? Not Jesse, the one who can shoot. Comanche Tom rolls back to the edge of the woods. - Among the squatting men a single one is tall with a dark, thoughtful face. He looks sadder than his 23 years should allow. His hand is wrapped around a longbarrel Enfield 30. Jesse. The long rider behind him turns around. He's 20. He's too damn good-looking and he's got your best friend's eyes. There's a coiled energy to him, and right now he seems more angry than afraid. Next to him is 15, who is terrified and trying not to show it. Watch Web. don't need watchin'! Web, bring you back dead and your sister'll kill me. Now shut up and lie there. (then) Careful, Frank. And make sure Bob and Cole are okay. Loose shots spitting up dirt and wood chips everywhere. Frank crawls up, nods to the Youngers, peers through the stacked wood. Another from the cannon. Cannon or Gatling? Both would be nice. Soon as hit one, the other'll know and beat us up. Cannon. Frank raises his head just high enough to poke the Enfield over the stacked fenceposts. Everyone else is flinching from the suppressing fire. Frank is perfectly still. Squinting, aiming, perfectly centered ... As the Captain of the six man crew and hits the ground dead. Before the others can react, two more grab their throats and drop. The remaining soldiers bolt from the cannon. But the Gatling crew swings the gun around and the barrels Frank and the others hit the dirt as the Gatling shreds the fenceposts, fells trees, churns the ground, stitching a path of destruction across the bulwarks and into the woods where The Gatling rounds are everywhere. Rangers jerk as the Gatling tears them apart. Jesse grabs Web to his chest and swings around, shielding the boy with his own body. When the fire pauses for a moment. Jesse looks down -- he's covered in blood. He lets Web fall away. Blood bubbles up from where the boy's chest used to be. Hell no... Jesse's trying to stop the blood with his bare hands. Aw, Jesse. (crying) never even got to be with a girl. Web dies. Jesse sighs. He's seen too much death to cry anymore. He stands up, pivots, and strides for the fencepost barrier. Rifle fire is zipping through the air all around him, but he keeps walking. Frank, the Younger brothers, Comanche Tom and the Captain are all still there. Captain Malcolm peers through the wall. They're getting closer. Jesse arrives, slaps Cole's shoulder. Cole grins grimly. 'Bout time you got here, buddy. What's going on? Every time put my head up to hit that Gatling, they try to shoot it off. So we got a plan? My plan of lying here pissing myself seems to be working mighty fine, thank you. can hit those boys from here. We just need a distraction. (smiling) distraction? Well, why the hell didn't you just say so? Jesse sprints back into the woods. Cole, Bob, and Frank exchange looks. He's smiling. Never a good thing. This ought to be interesting. from the Gatling pushes their heads down, but as that sound fades, another blends in, growing louder and louder, the The men at the fortification, turning to face the woods, their faces stunned as from the woods, heading straight at his own men and at the last second and as he does Jesse leans back in the saddle to let the wind strip off his longrider coat, revealing for the first time his -- two Colts at the hip, a crossed bandolier on his chest with two cross-holstered Colts at the shoulders, and two Colts in the small of his back. And for that one second as Jesse and the horse are in mid-air and the longrider coat trails behind him like leather wings and his guns gleam blue in the sunlight, Jesse James is the Angel of Death. The horse hits the ground running. The Union troops are in shock as Jesse draws both his hip Colts and starts firing. Come on, ya Yankee bastards! His Jesse rides straight at the Bluecoats. Five, six are down before they can even react. They start firing back, but they can't draw a bead. Two more are down. Jesse's making every bullet count. The Gatling gun as the crew swings it around and hundred of rounds tearing straight at Jesse Jesse who incredibly cuts the horse hard left using just his knees, still shooting as the Gatling volley goes wide, actually killing two of the Union soldiers behind Jesse. But then the arc of fire takes Jesse's horse in the rump. The horse falls, but Jesse dives off, still firing, killing another two soldiers. Then he hits the ground, rolls, and is up and running, dropping the spent Colts and drawing the two shoulder guns in one smooth motion, never interrupting his shooting. Frank sees the Gatling swing away from him. He stands and -- -- as the Gatling triggerman drops, as the ammo-feeder goes down, and as the third man falls before the echo of the first shot clears. Cole is the first one on his feet. We're coming Jesse! Charge! With a ragged cheer the some actually on horseback, firing at the exposed Union troops. Soldiers are swarming Jesse, but he's moving, turning, an untouchable blur in the chaos. As he drops two more empty Colts and reaches for the last two at his back, a just an arm's length away Oh, you do not! Jesse grabs the rifle barrel and drives the butt straight back into the soldier's nose. The Union boy falls, releasing the gun. Jesse swings the rifle in a smooth arc, bashing another soldier in the jaw, and then spins it effortlessly into his opposite hand and it point blank into another Union soldier. The Rangers the Union soldiers. Rattled, the Union troops are beginning to break and fall back. Jesse as another nearby soldier draws a revolver. Jesse snags his hand, twists it, wrapping the man's arm backward around Jesse's waist. With the other man still gripping the weapon, Jesse as he turns, shooting six more Union soldiers as they try to rush him. With a final yank, Jesse pulls the Colt from the man and crashes it down on his skull. the Union soldiers in full retreat. The few remaining Bluecoats break and run as Jesse reaches the Gatling. Suddenly a from behind the Gatling and his rifle. bloody streak tears Jesse's cheek and he stumbles onto his back. With a cry, the figure jumps forward and buries his bayonet in Jesse's chest! Jesse gasps, then, puzzled, looks down. The bayonet has lodged right in the of the ammo belts on his chest, stopped by the bullets and leather. Jesse kicks. As the Union soldier is knocked back, Jesse smoothly snap-kicks to his feet and draws both remaining Colts. He pulls up short. It's a fifteen year old boy, Web Mimms in a blue uniform. There's a deadly pause. You ain't even been with a girl, have you? The boy shakes his head. Jesse waves him off with the guns. Git. The boy scurries off. Jesse turns and lopes down the hill. Instantly he's surrounded by cheering Missouri Rangers. The Rangers move past Jesse. Jesse suddenly realizes Frank is there. They fall into step together. Distracting enough for you? Pff. They hardly even noticed you. So you're saying could have done more to attract their attention. Mm-hmm. Such as? You could have worn one of those big, floppy woman's Easter Sunday hats. That would have made an impression. figure. See, that's your problem, Frank. By the time you finish figuring out stuff, I'm already finished doing it. No, Jesse, your problem is you're always doing stuff before I'm finished figuring it out. Cole, Bob, and Comanche Tom on their recovered horses. Cole jumps down and picks up Jesse in a bear hug. Wait'll we get back to Missouri, start telling those gals about how little Jesse James charged the whole Union Army by himself! You ride like a Comanche. You can ride like that? said like a Comanche, not this Comanche. Cole mounts up, reaches down a hand to Jesse. Ride with me, cousin? could use the walk. Suit yourself. We'll have some horses waiting for you at the road. (then) Let's ride, Rangers! Cole slaps leather and the Rangers canter off. As they disappear we hear: (low) Now, would just sound stupid saying something like that... Jesse and Frank watch them go, then start walking again. (finally) Web's dead. reckoned. Hell of a war. I'm sure it seemed like a good idea at the time. - The James brothers, the Youngers, and the other Rangers ride down a dirt road toward a ragtag column of Confederate soldiers. The grey uniforms are ghostlike in the twilight. The men are obviously broken, dispirited. The column stretches down the road and around a bend as far as the eye can see. Jesse and the other Rangers ride into the midst of the Confederates who part and flow around the horsemen like a slow-moving river. For a moment, nobody speaks while the whole eerie procession glides past. Where you boys going? There's Yankees back there. Lot's of 'em. One grizzled Confederate his arm in a bloody sling, looks up at Jesse. War's over, son. General Lee surrendered yesterday at Appomattox. The soldiers move on. The Rangers stare into the middle distance of despair. Cole rubs his hands across his face. Yesterday. Well, somebody better go tell What do we do now? Jesse seems to be the only one with a clear head. Home. We go home. We ride like hell to get there, and we kill anything or anyone that comes between us and our homes. And when we get there we stay there and God help any fool who tries to get me to leave my farm again. (pause) Best damn plan heard all war. Jesse jerks his reins, and the last remaining survivors of the Missouri Rangers trot off into the sunset. -- Jesse, Frank, the Youngers and Comanche Tom riding hard down country roads, past burned out farms. Are struggling through a downpour in a pitch black night, one of the horses slipping, going down. On a dusty road, the Youngers sharing a horse now, everybody just trying to keep moving. - Jesse, Frank, Cole, Bob, and Comanche Tom are looking down on the frontier town of Liberty, Missouri. Hello, Liberty Missoura! All this time in the saddle... We get to the farm, I'm going to shoot this damn horse just on principle. Never thought that pissant town would look so pretty. Anywhere nobody's shooting at me is pretty. Home, boys. Back to our farms. Planting corn. Harvesting corn. Year after year. Corn gonna shoot at me? Nope. Then love it. They start to ride down into town. Tom, why don't you stop at our spread before you head on out to the reservation? Figure we might have some work for you, if you want. Hmm. Go back to the reservation and get drunk in a dirt shack, or work for you... Well? I'm thinking... Cole throws a playful punch at Comanche Tom. - The gang is riding into the main stretch of town. They're grinning, happy to be home, until -- We got problems. are walking along the boardwalk, lingering near the saloon, all suddenly staring at the riders. What the -- Must be a garrison in town. We're in occupied territory, boys. Cole is returning stares. Hands off your hip, Cole. You're not scared, are you? Pick your fights, cousin. You taught me that. It gets worse. There in the center of town, is a brand new scaffold. Three bodies, fresh ones, are hanging from the nooses. Jesus mercy, that's Charlie Higgins, Dave Laller ... ... Will Perry ... They rode with Quantrill's Rangers. The riders stop at the scaffold, take off their hats. Looks like Web Mimms wasn't the only casualty this town's got. We better go to Doc's, see what's going on here. I'm cutting them down. Cole starts to dismount. Jesse grabs his arm. The Union Soldiers have started to form a crowd Not now. What is wrong with you? (low) In case we have to kill these sonofabitches, don't want them to see us coming. Cole thinks, nods. They ride away from the scaffold. Cole, want to get to the farm, make sure Little Jim and the girls are okay. Stop by our spread after that, tell our Ma we're all right. We'll go to Doc Mimms. The Youngers and Comanche Tom split off, start to trot away. think may just go on to the reservation. Tom, I'm this close to coming with you... - Jesse and Frank ride toward a handsome white two-story frame house that stands in a grove of elm trees. They dismount and walk up to the porch. in a cowboy hat is nailing a rail onto the porch. Scuse me, we're here for the Doctor. The farm hand turns and pulls off his hat -- her hat. She's a chestnut-haired beauty in her late teens, Jesse! Frank! She hugs both of them enthusiastically. Jesse is obviously, immediately smitten. Zerelda? Little Zee Mimms? You were little Jesse James when you left. But you got big! Zee arches an eyebrow. mean, you aged -- Zee arches both eyebrows. mean, mean, in a good way you got big and older. Zee tilts her head. Jesse's mouth moves, but nothing comes out, until Frank, don't you have something to say? You're doing just fine. (pulling it together) Zee, we got to talk to you and your father. a grey-haired man wearing rimless spectacles, steps out of the doorway. Frank, Jesse. (looking) Where's Web? of the Mimms house. We can see, but not hear, Jesse talking. beat, then we hear Zee Doc Mimms staggers, in the door frame. Jesse and Frank rush to help him. - The room is comfortable and elegant in a simple way. Doc Mimms is slumped in a big chair. Zee, her eyes red, is pushing a glass of sherry into his hands. Jesse and Frank sit across from him. -- rode right into them, screaming like a banshee. My little Web did that? Pff. He jumped his horse clear over our heads, killed a dozen Union soldiers before they knew what hit them. Jesse looks at Frank, urging him on. Whyyyy... he took down the Gatling gun and the cannon all by himself. Saved all our lives, Doc. None of the Liberty boys would have come home if not for Web Mimms, Doc. God's honest truth. Doc is fighting back tears, but proud. Web died fighting? Died a hero. (quietly) But still died. If there's anything we can do for you, Dr. Mimms. We want to help. Start thinking about yourselves. You, the Youngers, Clell Miller, all of you. Don't end up like Charlie. They found out Charlie rode with Quantrill's Raiders. They arrested him, tried him by military tribunal and hanged him this morning. thought there was general amnesty. For soldiers, yes. But if you rode in one of the partisan bands, they'll hang you for treason. And you boys are in more danger, because you've got a farm. Jesse and Frank don't understand. Daddy, don't start with this again. Zerelda, it's no coincidence. The railroad men come through, offering to buy up land. Nobody sells. Then they start hanging men who own farms for treason? You're saying the railroad's got the Army doing it's dirty work? Rich men in Washington, don't matter if they wear a tie or a uniform, they're all the same. All we thought about was coming home. swore I'd kill anybody who tried to get me off my farm again. If have to go to war with the railroad to stay, fine by me. Think about this. If we just come up with a story and stick to it, we should be all right. What kind of story are they going to believe? Hmm. You were in the Confederate Army with General Hood's Texas Army until... say Sharpsburg, then you were reassigned to General Jeb Stuart's cavalry until you surrendered in Tennessee. Pause. The men stare at Zee. Up goes the eyebrow again. That just might work. Maybe, maybe... Now go on to see your Ma. She'll be glad to see her sons alive. (choking) And for her sake, stay that way. - We see Frank and Jesse mount up. Zee is at the door seeing them off. We'll be back on Saturday with Cole and Bob, give you a hand with the repairs. Thank you. For everything. Especially that story you told my father. Jesse is about to object, but Zee raises a hand. I'm going to go cry now, so don't have time for your lies. But I'll see you Saturday. Zee kisses her fingertips and extends them to the boys, then disappears into the house. Frank shaking his head as they ride away. That Zerelda turned into a hell of a woman, eh -- Jesse's not next to him. Frank turns. Jesse's still staring at the door. Frank rides back, takes Jesse's horse by the reins. As Frank turns Jesse's horse and leads it away, Jesse's head keeps pivoting, fixed on the door. After a moment, Jesse turns to look forward, taking his reins. The brothers ride away slowly. "Big and older"? You can shut up now. You are a charmer. swear I'll shoot you in your sleep. Next time try "fat and haggard." Jesse pulls down his hat and groans into it. - Jesse and Frank ride up. Out of the farmhouse bursts a big, rugged frontier woman who is absolutely hysterical. My boys! My boys! She hauls Jesse and Frank clean out of their saddles. My boys are alive! (strangling) Not if you don't ease up a bit, Ma... She looks at both at arm's length. Did you kill Yankees? fair number, Ma. Say your prayers? Every night, Ma. Good. Now get inside and wash up for dinner. Jesse and Frank enter, surprised to find Cole, Bob, Comanche Tom, and a gawky 15 year old all eating at their kitchen table. Well look at Jimmy Younger. You're all grown up. (mouth full) Mmmph-hmpph. (sheepishly) Your Ma wouldn't let us leave until we ate something. That was two hours ago. don't see clean plates. The men dutifully return to the meal. Jesse nods his head at Comanche Tom. (quiet) Ma, I'm glad to see you being nice to our Injun friend. He's a good Christian and he killed Yankees. Jesus told me that made him an all right boy. Ma She's still talking to Jesus. What worries me is that Jesus is talking back. We can hear the laughter from inside the lit house. Night falls and - - Like a time-lapse film we see the surrounding trees have filled out, the stone fence is repaired, the shabby paint redone in sparkling white. Jesse and Cole, shirtless, are driving a post into a hole. Frank of the house and joins them. You ever notice Zerelda's eyes? She got two of them. think one of 'em's glass. Which one, right or left? The brown one. (to Cole) You talk big for a man who screwed another man back in Atlanta. Frank laughs as Cole raises the shovel to strike Jesse. Oh, Lord, the dance hall girl at Bunty's... Sadie was not a man! She had a moustache. She was European! All right, calm down. I'll agree Sadie was a woman -- Jesse and Frank swallow their laughs. -- if you stop saying things about my Zee. Your Zee? Hmm. (quoting) "From women's eyes this doctrine derive: they sparkle still the right Promethean fire; They are the books, the arts, the academes, that show, contain, and nourish all the world." have no idea what you just said, but it sounded real nice. Shakespeare. (pause) He's European. Ah. You want to write that down for me so can say it to Zee? The post finally drops straight into the hole. Jesse and Cole shrug into shirts and grab a pitcher of lemonade. Thanks for the help. After all you did on our farm? (sips, then) You miss it, don't you Jesse? The war? What, are you crazy? (beat) There are things miss about it. It was exciting. But it was a whole lot of killing. Why should we miss that? Because we were good at it? Hell, we were great at it. Jesse, don't tell anyone said this, because everybody knows I'm the toughest man in this town, but you are one terrifying sonofabitch with those guns. (regretful, but not) Yeah. Frank looks at Jesse thoughtfully. Then all three notice that stops at the edge of the property. Ma onto the porch next to Frank to meet: man in a suit, and three riders who dismount and flank Parker: two and a big Scot with a beard and no moustache, Pinkerton is wearing a suit and a gun in a high waistband. All four advance to the house. Howdy, folks. How are you this afternoon? "Howdy"? Easterners. We're just fine, thank you, sir. am Rollin Parker, personal emissary of Mr. Thaddeus Rains, president of the Rock Island and Pacific Railroad. These two gentlemen are Pinkerton detectives, working for Mr. Thaddeus Rains, president of the Rock Island and Pacific Railroad, and this gentleman here is the famous Alan Pinkerton, founder of the Secret Service and now working under contract to Mr. Thaddeus Rains. Would that be Thaddeus Rains, president of the Rock Island and Pacific Railroad? You know him? Heard of him. (trying to regain control) As you have no doubt heard from your neighbors, our railroad is moving west. That makes sense, as east would put you underwater. Pinkerton coughs a laugh. Parker glares at him and continues. ... moving west, opening the frontier for folks such as yourself. Your acreage here is on the proposed right of way. Parker produces a piece of paper. Ma takes it. I'm here for your signature on this land sales contract. I'm authorized to pay you two dollars an acre. Two dollars? That's right. That's the price authorized by the railroad's board, and approved by the Department of the Interior of the Government of the United States of America. This land ain't for sale. Pinkerton steps forward. Ma'am, can understand how you might feel that way -- you've made a lovely home here. But it's really not up to me or you. Are you familiar with the legal concept of the Right of Eminent Domain? Yeah, am. What about it? Parker is surprised. Pinkerton has become interested in these farmers. Well, this land is about to be condemned. I'm doing you folks a favor -- Said the skinner to the mule. -- with a price of two dollars an acre for this one time only offer. After today the price goes down. So if were you, I'd just sign the contract, and I'll be on my way. Frank takes the contract from Ma and hands it back to Parker. Good day, Mr. Parker You can tell Mr. Thaddeus Rains to put this where the sun don't shine. (to the boys) Shakespeare. Ah. Parker flushes with anger. Pinkerton and his men rest their hands on their guns. don't think you understand. You don't have a choice. and we see Jesse's drawn and cocked two Colts from out of thin air. Frank has pulled his rifle from the doorway. Parker and the detectives are furious, but Pinkerton seems no more than curious. (to Ma) Ma'am. You have to look in your heart and do what you know is right here. Let me ask the Lord. Ma bows her head for a moment. She then nods and looks up. The Lord says we can bury 'em out back in the orchard, nobody'll ever find them. Somebody's in a vengeful smiting mood today. Why don't we just let them go for today, Ma. We'll bury them out back next time. Oh all right. Parker, and the detectives are stepping backward to the buggy. You people are making a serious mistake! Pinkerton himself has lingered, taking in the group. (nodding) Nicely played. Parker, Pinkerton and the detectives The group at the James house watches them go, then Cole turns to Jesse. Where the hell did you get those guns? - Dozens of men and a few women are packed into the one room school house. Among them are Frank and Jesse. Doc Mimms is leading the meeting. went up to the courthouse and looked at the right of way documents for the rail bed. The railroad doesn't even need our land, they're just taking the land on both sides for as far as they can. Damn. All that reading paid off. Floor recognizes Clell Miller. tall and blond, steps forward. They're saying we don't sell, we might end up with nothing! That's only if we don't stick together. (pointing) Loni Packwood. a sad, scruffy man stands up. say this is the last straw. came back from the war, found my house burned down. My cows was dead. Now my wife's run off with my cousin, Jeb, that sonofabitch. (tearing up) Took my dog-- Ah, Loni, about the railroad. forget. (almost weeping) Took my dog... Another steps up. signed. Harlan, you can't. I'm tired of fighting. I'm just gonna take my family and move west. Maybe we should hire a lawyer. 2 That's a good idea! It would be, if the courts were on the up and up. So what do we do? the school house door as it open and Bob Younger bleeding from a cut on his forehead, being supported by Zee. They got Cole. He collapses into a seat. The crowd surrounds him. He came to our house, Daddy. figured you'd all want to hear this. Jesse and Frank are next to Bob. Zee puts a hand on Jesse's shoulder. He notices. They came up, made the same offer they made you folks. Our little brother Jim tried to chase 'em off, one of those detectives hit him in the head, knocked him out. Cole lost his temper. (rubbing his forehead) Oh no... He just lost his temper a little. (sighing) How many of them did he kill? Two. Damn! They said because the detectives were working for the Department of the Interior -- The Army can hang him. Tomorrow. What do we do? Nothing. The crowd stares at Jesse. You folks are going to do nothing. You're all going to go home right now. So you're going to be able to swear on a Bible that you don't know anything about what's going to happen tomorrow. Jesse's gaze is at once noble and terrifying. The crowd quietly begins to disperse. Boys... Go home, Doc. (softly) They ain't gonna hang no more Liberty boys. Doc Mimms nods, Jesse walks to the other end of the school house. Bob, Frank, Clell and Loni fall in behind him. The door again and Comanche Tom enters with Jim Younger sporting six-guns way too big for him. couldn't lose him. Jim Younger, told you-- It's my fault they're gonna hang Cole. want in. Jim, it was just a matter of time before they tried to hang somebody else to scare off the other farmers. And you're too young. (to Jesse) I'm the same age you were when you went off to war. And the same age Web was. No. You're wasting time. Zee joins them. Zee, go home. Zee's eyebrows go up. Who else was there when they hanged the others? The men look at each other. Nothing. You need to know how they do it. Which way they walk up. What order they do things in. And if you mess up rescuing Cole because you won't listen to a woman, then God damn you all. Pause. All right. Seven of us against a Union regiment and Pinkerton detectives in broad daylight in the middle of Main Street. Jesse smiles. He's smiling. Is that bad? Very. - Soldiers flank the gallows, which stand at the bottom of the stairs to City Hall. small drum corps beats a stark rhythm. Parker is watching this like a sideshow. Pinkerton is next to him, scanning the crowd of locals which is getting larger and surlier by the minute. Relax, Alan. The Army has this all in hand. And Mr. Thaddeus Rains will be very pleased with this news. Nothing like a hanging to motivate the populace to relocate. It's not my job to relax. I've put men facing out both ways down Main Street, so nobody can ride in shooting. I've got a sharpshooter up on the water tower just in case. Pinkerton to a in a suit atop the water tower. We see it is in the suit, who and then kneels and sights down his long rifle. Tucked away behind him, out of sight from the street, is a bound-and-gagged in his underwear. Cole, his face swollen from a beating, is marched up the stairs of the gallows toward the waiting hangman. of the gallows, detectives and soldiers down the street on both sides, guns ready. The position is completely unassailable. Cole is at the platform. His hands are tied in front of him. The noose is placed on his neck. The gallows. Parker leans forward in anticipation. approaches with the black hood. Cole spits in his face. The The Lieutenant angrily motions to the who grabs the lever -- The drums -- But the drumming doesn't. The drum corps look at each other, confused. The Army men and the Pinkertons squint in concentration. There's definitely some sort of rhythmic coming closer... The sensing something, easing back from the gallows... The drumming gets ... Fifty-odd suddenly from down the street, their hooves creating the drumming! as the Pinkertons and Army men start to scatter, the cattle surging around them -- Parker and Alan Pinkerton running for cover, Pinkerton half-turned to watch the action. Brilliant... Pinkerton suddenly spots something confusing. We his stare to see -- a in the middle of the cattle, cutting through the steer, towards the gallows. - Jesse -- masked -- appears from the side of the horse, where he's been hanging on Indian-style. He gets a leg up on the horse's back and -- into the Hangman, bringing him down! The cattle pass the gallows, revealing that the tight ranks of the Army and Pinkertons are now spread out -- From the nearby the other masked rescuers through the big front window on horseback and ride into the Army men, The Army men and Pinkertons fight towards the gallows. As Jesse untangles himself from the Hangman, the Union Lieutenant reaches for the lever but drops as Frank opens fire. Frank starts picking off soldiers. The detectives and remaining soldiers are completely disoriented. Jesse flashes a knife and the noose drops away from Cole's neck. Facing Cole, he cuts the rope on Cole's wrists -- Cole instantly draws Jesse's guns from his waist holster, spin-reverses them and two Union soldiers climbing the stairs behind Jesse's back. Jesse and Cole exchange a look, then Jesse steps away -- As Bob rides by he into the air. Jesse draws both guns from the belt as it flies by, spins and starts shooting. The soldiers have totally broken ranks. One riderless horse led by Comanche Tom pulls up by the scaffold. Jesse and Cole jumps on behind him. Jesse puts the spurs to it and the horse into a gap in the crowd. Allen Pinkerton steps past the panicking troops, squarely in the path of the charging horse. He draws his gun and The bullet into Jesse just as the terrified horse lurches forward, Pinkerton. Cole holds Jesse up and the riders take off down the street. We see Frank has disappeared from the water tower. The soldiers fire at the fleeing liberators. One of the detectives runs over to the injured Alan Pinkerton. Sir, are you all right? (shout) Somebody get a doctor! - one window upstairs with a light on. Doc Mimms has just finished bandaging Jesse, who lies unconscious beneath the sheets. Zee is holding an oil lamp. He's going to be fine, right Daddy? The bullet came out clean, but he lost a whole lot of blood. Praying wouldn't hurt. The from outside. Doc Mimms opens the door. and a squad of soldiers push in. Good evening, sir, we're looking for a fugitive. fugitive? Who? We don't know, but he was very badly wounded. We're checking all the houses in the area. Zee hears her father protesting, then on the stairs. Quickly she undresses, grabs a quilt from a chest and jumps into bed with Jesse. She pulls the quilt up to her neck, completely hiding him. At that moment, the Officer barges in. Zee lets out a little gasp as if startled awake. She covers herself with the quilt. Sir! Who are you? Oh. Sorry ma'am. should hope so. The Officer Zee watches the door for a moment, then looks down fondly at Jesse. Jesse, are you awake? (groggy) Mmmm. Zee gently pushes his hair off his face. Then her expression changes. Jesse, is that your hand? Nuh-huh ... Jesse smiles in his sleep. Zee jumps out of the bed and wraps a dressing gown around herself. Doc Mimms enters. They're gone. What are you -- fooled them into thinking was alone. Well, hope the boy pulls through. We should know in the morning. (with a little smile) think he's already feeling better. puzzled Doc Mimms follows her out. - - lavishly appointed carriage rolls up to the front of the nicest hotel in town. Rollin Parker and his retinue of Pinkerton detectives scurry to the door. The Out steps wearing an elegant suit he bought in London last year and a scowl he picked up in Boston three decades ago. The scowl fits him better. Mr. Thaddeus Rains, sir, it is a pleasure to have you join us in the field. And it is my pleasure to be here. Really! It is my pleasure to have to leave my board room to come to this godforsaken piece of dirt to discover why in the name of all that is holy you cannot seem to evict a few simple farmers from their so that may build the railroad that this country has ever seen! can completely understand your distress, sir. Rains sighs. As he speaks, he checks a heavy, gold, ornate and ever-present on a Parker, tell me what's going on so can return as quickly as possible to Boston and my whores and cigars, not necessarily in that order. Two weeks ago, we managed to arrange to have the Army hang one of the local farmers. Good. Unfortunately not, sir. gang of local thugs managed to rescue him from the gallows. Not only has this inspired resistance from the other farmers, the redoubtable Mr. Alan Pinkerton was seriously injured during the incident. Leaving you in charge of operations until he recovers. (puffing with pride) Yes sir. Just perfect. further impediment is that the Army garrison has been ordered to move on from Liberty. We will no longer have that particular stick with which to threaten the farmers. You see the Army leaving and you see the loss of a tool. see a power void to be filled. As we have the most power, we may move with impunity. see. I'll get together four patrols of our detectives for action tonight. I'll teach these podunks what happens when they challenge the righteousness of progress. - - Zee is on the porch. Jesse the door, moving gingerly. Zee immediately moves to support him. You shouldn't be up. I've been on my back two weeks. I'm sick of it. You're sick of my company? No! mean, of course not. No. Teasing you is completely unfair. What you do to me is unfair. The teasing, mean. shouldn't tease a hero. What? Everybody in the county knows it was you who rescued Cole. We're all so proud of you, Jesse. And not a single farm's been sold to the railroad since. You're everybody's hero. wasn't the only one risking my neck that day. So you're saying should leave you alone and go spend time with Jimmy Younger? Unfair. You are completely unfair. They look at each other warmly. Frank in a carriage. You ready to stop loafing around with this young lady and get back to farming? What do you think? Would you get in the carriage? Until Ma has you home so she can fuss over you herself, she's gonna make me miserable. Doc Mimms onto the porch. What do you say, sir? Go on. You're pretty much all healed up. Jesse and Zee exchange glances. Zee withdraws demurely into the house. Jesse straightens up and hops easily into the carriage. You're looking a bit more spry now that somebody -- (to Frank) Shut up. (to Doc Mimms) Uh, Doc, was wondering if, uh, this evening, could come by? You know you're welcome any time! (unusually awkward) Yesss, but was thinking, could come by, and then take Zee out. Some place near. With other folk. Near. Here. (beat) But out. (bemused) It's fine by me, Jesse. Don't worry, sir, I'll make sure they're always properly chaperoned. Jesse slooooowly turns to glare at Frank. (grinning) Why, that hadn't even occurred to me, Frank. am deeply in your debt. Army's leaving town, so Cole can stop hiding up in the woods and come back to his farm. Everybody's getting together at the Younger place for a to-do. Frank tips his hat, and the carriage - Dozens of people are milling about happily in the lantern light of a Western party. Some are dancing to the small banjo-led band. small knot of men are comparing war stories. Cole Younger is wandering among them, people clapping his shoulder, shaking his hand. Jesse -- formally accompanying Zee -- and Frank arrive at the edge of the light. Immediately the entire group bursts into applause and crowds Jesse. Cole cuts through and bear hugs Jesse, making him wince. Here's Liberty's favorite son! (quietly) I'll never forget what you did, cousin. Zee, I'm pleased you came. Why thank you, Bob. I'm especially pleased you came with Jesse. (off her look) Seeing as right now there's a gaggle of girls hoping to dance with Jesse who are just going to have to settle for the many charms of Bob Younger. group of obviously disappointed, beautiful young women. Bob runs a hand through his hair. You have no shame. Not yet. But I'm hoping. The party starts up again, and everyone is caught up in the good times. Jesse Zee into a group of dancers. They join in the Two-Step, and Jesse's as smooth as silk. - - Jesse, carrying a lantern, and Zee are walking. We can hear the party still going just a little ways away. They reach a tree at the hilltop with a beautiful view of the stars and the river. They sit down, their backs against the tree. used to come to this tree when was a kid and imagine what my life would be like when got older. You didn't want to farm? was thinking more along the lines of being a river pirate. river pirate. Arr. Hand over your jewels, Missy. Thank God you grew out of that. (pause) You did grow out of that, didn't you? Mostly. It would be an all right life, for a bachelor. You planning on being a bachelor your whole life, Jesse James? Not if find the right girl. And what's this right girl like? Smart. Funny. Bossy. Always makes me think she's two steps ahead of me. And big buck teeth. Where will you find such a girl? Honestly, you'd do if only you had the buck teeth. Zee fakes a monstrous overbite. (dreamy) Finally. The two move a little closer. Eye contact. Ahem. "From this doctrine..." No, ah... "From women's eyes this doctrine derive, they sparkle still like ... shiny... sparkling rocks..." Sparkling rocks? Little ones. Is this one of Frank's Shakespeare poems you're trying to quote? Yep. Were you planning on kissing me when you finished quoting? I've been planning on kissin' you for a very long time. They kiss. It's everything it should be. Jesse and Zee are startled by a flash of light and sound. They turn to look back -- The partygoers are from the to the which is in several different places. As the Younger brothers and Frank get close, they see a squad of masked riders disappearing down the road. Some of the men at the riders, but the distance is too great. Jim makes a run for the but Bob grabs him. Come back here and face me! Get buckets! Some of the crowd starts to form a bucket line to the well. Jesse and Zee Frank turns to him. Pinkertons. It's the railroad. Ma. Frank and Jesse bolt for their horses, swing into the saddles and From a bit down the road, looking just fine. Jesse and Frank reign in as relief rushes across their faces -- tears the house apart like a pile of matchsticks! Jesse and Frank urge their horses into a full gallop. Jesse and Frank leap from their mounts, trying to get close to the house. The flames are too strong. Ma! Ma! Jesse's ventured so close his coat catches fire. Frank tears it from him and stamps it out. Jesse ignores him, still pacing back and forth in front of the inferno. Ma! Please! (weakly) Boys? The brothers turn and nearly drop from shock. Ma is stumbling toward them, half her hair singed off, brutally Jesus mercy -- They reach her just as she collapses. Jesse is cradling her, Frank with his arms around both of them. Riders -- We know, Ma. Now we got to get you to Doc Mimms. Take care of each other, boys. You say your prayers. Jesse is openly crying. Frank has tears silently streaming down his face. Doc Mimms will -- Shush. Ma's eyes turn up, and she half-smiles. Well look at that. The Good Lord's a bit shorter than reckoned. Ma gently stops breathing. The boys holding Ma, framed by the roaring flames of their home. Jesse leans his head back and lets out a that goes on and on and on... - Frank and Jesse are staring at the smoking ruins of their lives. Other townsfolk are milling nearby, including Zee and the Youngers. ... We could move on. Rebuild. Make a decent life someplace else. Don't care. Didn't think you would. (turning away) I'm going to go make the coffin. Make a thousand of 'em. Still won't be enough by the time I'm through. Frank is gone. Our place, Clell Miller's, Sammy Johnston, the Creeders. Will Hite. The sheriff says it was a gang of drunk Kansas boys. say we ride into town and kill us some Pinkertons and railroad men. like that. No. They stare at him. This isn't a feud, this is war. They've got more men than we do. We kill detectives, they can replace 'em in a day. (snapping) So what do we do, General Lee? Just like in the war. Harass their supply lines. We kill the railroad's men, they won't care. But if we take their money and supplies... Exactly. That's a great plan, Jesse! Cole nods grudgingly. I'll get us a few more men, and Comanche Tom'll ride with us. Where do we hit first, Jesse? I'll pick the first job! mean... know a girl down at the bank. See if she can't get a list of towns where the railroad keeps its money. Perfect, Cole. Let's ride. The Youngers mount up. Jesse walks to the ruined house, pulls a big iron trunk from the wreckage. He it open, reaches in, and pulls out his gun belts. Zee appears behind him in what remains of the doorway. am so sorry, Jesse. Frank and me have to go away for a while. Zee considers this, puts her head in close to Jesse's. You and we've started... something, you know? (Jesse nods) don't know what'll happen if you do this. Me neither. Let the law -- Laws don't touch men like Thaddeus Rains. Only justice does. Whose justice? Yours or God's? (no answer) When will you stop? When my name makes them cry in their sleep. When I've brought them to ashes. Jesse kisses her gently, turns and walks to where the Youngers are standing. Zee can barely conceal her anger and heartbreak. - of a Midwestern bank on a quiet street. There are two teller windows, a couple of male customers and a and Jesse and Cole dressed for the trail, longrider coats and spurs. Saddlebags are slung over their shoulders. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but have bad news. The railroad payroll has been stolen. The steps out from behind his desk. What are you talking about? The railroad's money is right over there in that safe. Jesse draws two guns, Cole produces a shotgun from his coat. That safe? Ah. Frank James, Bob and Jim Younger, Clell Miller, Loni Packwood, Comanche Tom and several new wait along both sides of the street in this medium sized mid-western town. Some are standing next to their horses, some mounted. An with a cane is walking shakily towards the bank. Frank jerks his head and Jim intercepts him. Hold on there, sir. Bank's closed today. Wha? Bank holiday! Bank's closed! Jim tries to steer the old man away. The old man starts batting at him with the cane. Get off me! Ow! Ow! Frank sighs. Jesse and the Bank Manager are having a staredown. This is outrageous. Who are you people? The James Gang. (annoyed) The James-Younger Gang. Sorry. Don't let it happen again. The old man is still smacking Jim with the cane. Bob crosses to help. Sir, it's a bank holiday -- and now the old man's laying the cane on both Bob and Jim. Ow! Ow ow! Frank hangs his head. Cole turns to the Woman and Child. Ma'am, kindly cover that child's eyes. Why? don't want her to see me shoot this man. The woman covers the child's eyes. Cole raises the shotgun. Jesse half covers his eyes and turns his head. The Manager swallows. Comanche Tom walks over to where the old man is still Jim and Bob. know it ain't no durned bank holiday! You're right, sir. Then why can't go in there? On account of we're robbing it. Oh. Why didn't you just say so? It's a secret. Fine. I'll just wait here. I'd appreciate that. The old man settles against the wall. Comanche Tom moves back to his horse. Bob and Jim walk off, glaring at the old man. lean, middle-aged is walking by his window. His is whittling at the desk. The Sherriff pulls up short. What the -- What is it? Old Man Tucker is just standing quiet outside the bank. So? When have you ever known Old Man Tucker not to be yelling at everybody? He takes in the group of riders, reaches for his rifle. Jesse and Cole the bank with full saddlebags. Everybody and starts riding down main street. How'd it go in there? Fine. How'd it go out here? We're gonna have to talk... The gang flinches as a chunk of wood splinters from a post. They turn to see the Sherriff running out in front of them, raising his rifle -- The entire Gang draws their guns. Jesse raises a hand. Sir, you can do this the smart way, or the stupid way. Only one way ends with you still breathin'. The Sherriff takes in the Gang's firepower. He lowers the rifle. (to the Gang) Just 'cause we're robbing a bank, no reason not to be civil about it. The Gang turns and hard. The walks up to the Sherriff a beat later. Where the hell were you? had you covered. (beat) From back there. Shit. - bonfire burns in the middle of a rough camp in the woods. The Gang members are sitting around, relaxing and drinking coffee. All eyes are on Jesse and Cole as they finish counting the money. got seven thousand. got three. Ten thousand dollars! That's almost a thousand apiece! The men My luck is changing at last! Cole holds up a pile of papers. These are deeds and mortgages of farms the bank was holding for the railroad. Better pass them over here before something happens to 'em. Cole goes to hand the papers to Bob and "accidentally" drops them in the fire. The men again. All right, settle down. All this money ain't ours. Well, no, Jesse, it was the bank's. That's why we had to go to all that trouble of stealing it. (to Frank) You explain it to him. We oughta take some of this, give it to our neighbors in Liberty. Lot of people hurting up there. None of them risked their necks for this. Now, let's think about this. We create some good will with the folks hereabouts, make it easier to dodge the law. See, Frank's being smart about this. Just because he reads all those books and knows all those big words doesn't make him smart. Uhh, yeah it does. You stay out of this, Bob. think Jesse's got a good idea -- You stay out of this too, Jim. (to Jesse) Who put you in charge of this gang, anyway, Jesse? did mighty fine leading us during the War. And planned getting you off the hangman's deck -- And that's why you both lead the gang. Two of you went into that bank together, right? Jesse and Cole nod, still watching each other. Two heads are better than one. All Jesse was doing was making a suggestion. Jesse nods, his face giving nothing up. So we're waiting to hear what you think of the suggestion. As the other leader of the gang. Cole considers this. reckon it's the smart thing to do. The other Gang members grumble. Cole whirls on them. Hey! We decide something, that's it! We're in this for the long haul, and this idea of me and Jesse's will help give us more places to hide out without worrying about some farmer with a shotgun sneakin' up on us in our sleep. We've got to think -- Strategically. -- Exactly. Because this is a war. This ain't no war. The Gang is taken aback by this blatant contradiction. Then a smile spreads across Clell's face. Nobody paid me no thousand dollars to fight in the War! The Gang and the tension is broken. Jesse and Cole slap each other's shoulders, and everyone starts counting their money and talking all at once. - The crowded saloon is alive with music, card-playing, and dancing girls. Various James Gang members are playing cards and drinking. Jesse, Cole, and Frank are at the bar. It's not a bank. It's better. It's a construction depot. They'll have the strongbox and some ammo and explosives for us to take. That way we can take on a bigger job. And it's guarded by Pinkerton detectives. And do so want to shoot some Pinkerton detectives. Jesse and Cole grin and slap each other on the back. Jim in waving a newspaper. He quickly runs to the bar. (stage whispering) We're famous! Jesse takes the paper. I'll be damned! The other Gang members drift over to the bar. (reading) "The Fidelity Bank and Trust was robbed on Tuesday by a gang of twenty heavily armed men." Twenty?! What are the odds, another gang robbing the same place right after we did. Yeah, Loni, that's exactly what happened. "The outlaws calling themselves the James-Younger Gang shot their way out of town, wounding the Sherriff and three other townsfolk." Hey! "Bank officials estimate the loss at fifty thousand dollars." We only got ten thousand. This happens all the time when you let the white man count the money. "The District Marshal at St. Louis called this the first daylight bank robbery in American history." Jim whistles. We made history. That's something to be proud of. The rest of this is all lies. That just means the next time, we'll have to set the record straight ourselves. The Gang looks at him. - Half finished railroad tracks run alongside a few sheds and an office building. The as the James-Younger Gang rides at full gallop. rapid series of follows them, destroying the track for hundreds of yards. - The entire work camp is still hangs over the twisted wreckage, a few wagons smolder, it looks like Omaha Beach at plus 20. Thaddeus Rains is surveying the damage with Parker. They exchanged fire with the Pinkerton Guards, killing several of them. Then they raided the payroll office and blew the tracks for half a mile. How much did they get from the safe? Thirty-five thousand, sir. Coins and currency. And the delay from the miles of destroyed track -- I'll kill them for blowing up my railway! To be precise, they didn't blow up the tracks. We did. Rains stares at him. Parker swallows. ... mean, our men. Our own workers planted the dynamite. (beat) They were under duress. Rains controls his cerebral hemorrhage through sheer force of will. He checks his pocket watch, then says through gritted teeth: Where the hell is Pinkerton? The makes them turn. fancy carriage that pulls up. the ground beneath the carriage. boot hits the ground. Then another. Then the tip of a cane. Alan Pinkerton now moving toward Rains and Parker, limping from when Jesse's horse trampled him. He has a newspaper folded up under one arm. Look at this, Pinkerton! They got the payroll, and this damage will set construction back two months at least. (surveying) Not to mention my men who lost their lives. Your men knew the risks. What is going on here, man? My professional opinion is that you have managed to piss off the wrong bunch of farm boys this time. They had to be dealt with! By burning down their homes? You wouldn't have done that? Oh no, would have done that. But would have made sure killed them, too. want them arrested and hanged! Would a jury around here convict their own? think not. We're beginning an interesting game here, Mr. Rains. This is no game. I'm afraid our adversaries don't agree. He hands Rains the paper. Rains' eyes bug out. He begins to read aloud. (reading) Rock Island and Pacific Railroad depot was robbed two nights ago just outside St. Louis, Missouri. The brave and daring James-Younger Gang was heavily outnumbered by Pinkerton detectives, but the city lawmen were no match for the guns of the West." It is a nice piece of writing. "The gang made off with thirty-five thousand dollars and also destroyed the Thaxton Switch construction, meaning that for a few months honest farmers will be able to sleep without fearing the railroad is coming to steal their land!" (he slams the paper into Parker's chest) Who wrote this!? I'll see him hanged every Tuesday for a month! Oh, that's the best part. He points Rains to the bottom of the article. "The foregoing article was sent to the newspaper. It was reputedly written by the outlaw -- (exploding) Jesse James himself!" Rains crushes the paper in his hands, raging as he surveys his destroyed rail tracks. - Doc Mimms is reading a paper to Zee. "...written by the outlaw Jesse James himself." Zee is pacing. He thinks this is some kind of game! I'm upset too, Zee, but Jesse and Cole know what they're doing. I'm sure they won't press their luck. Zee looks at him. Doc Mimms sighs. know. But the Lord protects madmen and prophets, and Jesse's...one of them. I'm just not sure which. - freight train is coming. We can see "Rock Island and Pacific Railroad" written across the side. The nudges the fireman. Look at that. Outside, along the railbed, members of the James Gang are holding a series of signs, each one a dozen yards after the other. The engineer reads each one as they pass. (reading) "Better... slow... down... dynamite... ahead... too late... you're dead!" The engineer and the fireman look up. Ahead of them on the track is an overloaded wagon with barrels marked The engineer slams on the brakes. The high pitched scream of steel on steel sounds out over the avalanche of sparks flying from the wheels. The train stops juuuuust in time. The front of the engine is inches away from the wagon. Jesse sticks his head in, guns drawn. That was a fine piece of driving, yes sir. He looks at the wagon. The engineer and fireman follow his gaze. Comanche Tom and Jim Younger climb on top of the wagon, kick over some barrels. They're empty, without even a top or bottom. Jesse grins as the engineer and fireman hang their heads. - Jesse and Frank walk into a large bank dressed in suits. Just inside the door, Frank notices something odd and nudges Jesse. It's a "Wanted" poster. "Frank and Jesse James. $5,000 reward." They look back and forth at the artist's sketches and each other. They shake their heads "no." Jesse walks over to the teller's window. He hands a bill to the Could you change this please? (studying it) Sir, this bill is counterfeit! Jesse draws. Frank whistles and Cole, Bob and Jim burst in. don't think it's counterfeit. Do you mind if take a look at all your real bills to compare? It's the scientific method. It's all the rage. - a richly paneled conference room, a group of and are gathered around a large table. On the table is a map with a dozen red markers. Thaddeus Rains and Alan Pinkerton are studying the map. Senator, can't you do anything? Missouri shakes his head. The people see the James-Younger Gang as heroes against the Eastern businessmen. This is not an area where men in suits are much loved. Pinkerton, why can't you get these outlaws? It's early in the game yet, Mr. Rains. Jesse James and are just learning how each other moves, feeling out each other's patterns. I'm losing millions of dollars and months of time while you play chess with these farmers! Hardly farmers. I've done some checking. All these were in the War. These men know sabotage, tactics, and have four years of bloody fighting experience behind them. They are disciplined, well-trained and have a charismatic leader. If were to design the perfect outlaw band, this gang is what would create. So you can't tell me anything? It's going to be a long winter. Rains pounds the table. -- On horseback, firing back at a posse. -- Where dozens of sharecroppers are sweating away. They leave a wake of twenty dollar gold certificates fluttering in the furrows and hanging in the corn. -- up to a crossroad. With a wave of his hand, never stopping, he splits one group off to head East, and he and the others head West. Marked the "James-Younger Gang." The James brothers and Younger brothers nod at the likenesses, which are getting better. All except Bob, who stares at his in disbelief. It looks nothing like him. Jesse tears down his poster and autographs it for a young boy. The Gang is riding hard. Cole and Jesse look over their shoulders, nod to each other, and The men bring their horses down to an easy pace. never thought that posse was gonna give up. They were admirably persistent. Jesse, we got to have a word. Sure, cousin. All the posters and newspapers are calling this bunch the "James-Younger Gang." Yep. Why aren't we the "Younger-James Gang"? mean, there's three Younger brothers and only two James brothers here. kinda like the sound of the James-Younger Gang. (bristling) Whose side you on? No, Jimmy has a point. The Younger-James Gang could be confusing. How? Say we bust into a bank. We yell "We're the Younger-James Gang!" People are gonna be thinking, "The younger James Gang? Is there an older James Gang? How come we never heard of the older James gang?" So people are trying to figure that out instead of raising their arms. Can't argue with that. Cole rolls his eyes. think you boys are missing the point here... They continue to argue as they ride off. How about "James-Younger" for the bank jobs and "Younger-James" for the train robberies? See, that's even more confusing, people'll think there's two gangs... - Comanche Tom to the building marked Marshall's Office. and a dozen are sitting around the porch. Tom leaps off his horse. You 'um big lawman? Yeah, Injun. What do you want? Great Chief of St. Louis send me. The District Marshall Of St. Louis? Ho-yah. Him say tell Big Lawman in Carville that badman Jesse James riding toward Rising Sun, above Great River, near Eagle Rock. East? East above the river heading for the Eagle Pass? Ho-yah! The Marshall turns to his men. want every man in town! We can cut off Jesse James before he crosses out of my territory! Let's go! The posse quickly mounts up. The Marshall tosses Comanche Tom a coin. Go ahead to the saloon. But don't get too drunk! Me get heap firewater -- The posse -- you cretins. Comanche Tom flips the coin over his shoulder. From around the corner the James Gang. They ride up to the building marked "Bank" right next to the Marshall's office. The Gang dismounts, runs in. An improbably short time later, the Gang members run back out with full saddlebags and mount up. Comanche Tom with them. Nice performance, Tom. feel dirty. - - The same men in suits and the same map, only now with more red markers on it. In the center of the group are Thaddeus Rains, Rollin Parker and Alan Pinkerton. Pinkerton. It's been eight months. see robberies. see hold ups. But do not see men on the end of nooses. All of the James Gang's encounters have been with local law enforcement who, quite frankly, are no match for this group's cunning. What about your detectives? They haven't -- Pinkerton suddenly on Rains and Parker. Rains doesn't back down, but we are acutely aware of the fact that Alan Pinkerton is a big, violent Scotsman. He never raises his voice here, but then again -- he doesn't have to. (to Parker) First of all: you, shut up. (to Rains) Now, you've given me a thousand miles of railroad to cover. Every time the James Gang strikes, we shift a hundred detectives to that area. But there's just too much open land, too many riverbeds to ride, caves to hide in. This gang operates across four states, often riding a hundred miles between jobs. can't believe this. And there are some towns in Missouri where James and his men can walk openly, as heroes. How can that be? They donate money to farmers, to churches. Rumor has it they gave the sharecroppers of Maddox so much money they were able to build a school. With my money! We should go burn that school to the ground, sir! (dryly) Yes, that's the way to win the locals back to our side. demand action. No, you demand results. They are not the same thing. And if you want results, you will let me do my job as see fit. Unless of course, (jerking his head at Parker) You want this fool to saddle up and take another run at it? Can't you tell me anything? It's going to be a long spring. -- The is marked with the "Rock Northern Railroad" logo. Suddenly Pinkerton guards leap up from hiding places in the coach and start firing! The gang fires back dropping two of the men. Old "Wanted" posters are replaced by a new set. Jesse and Frank are pulling the payroll off as the rest of the Gang keeps their guns on the remaining Pinkertons. Two dead Pinkertons lie on the ground. See, that's a shame. If people would just hand over the money and not shoot at us -- Loni looks at something in his hand. What's that? Lucky Rabbit's foot. Took it off that dead fella over there. don't think that one's working, Loni. Loni pockets the charm. -- Sit heads bowed in a small country church as the collection plate is passed. Jesse drops in a handful of twenty dollar gold pieces. -- Getting him to autograph his $10,000 Poster. The Gang is all there, admiring the new posters. The likenesses are remarkable -- except for Bob's. It still looks nothing like him. And we can see Cole is not pleased at all the attention Jesse's getting. -- Directing his lieutenants on how to cover the territory. -- Jesse is off to one side, writing a letter on fancy stationery. Frank is coaching him. Doc Mimms hands Zee the envelope we just saw Jesse working with. Zee takes the envelope and tosses it into the burning fireplace. - Jesse, Cole, Frank, and Bob are in the middle of a stick-up. All the have their hands up. Okay, folks, think we know how this is going to go... One false move and I'll blow your heads off! Jesse, Frank, and Cole look at Bob. Beg pardon? You heard me, Jesse. You know how crazy get! Jesse and Cole turn to the 'Scuse us. Think nothing of it. Jesse and Cole cross to Bob. We got a problem here, brother? (low) Frankly, yes. I'm feeling a little left out. (sighing) This is about the "Wanted!" Posters, isn't it. Yes. am obviously not standing out in people's minds at the robberies. (to Jesse) This is your fault for hogging all the publicity. Hold on, hold on, we all know Bob is an important part of the gang. Frank arrives. Gents, we are in the middle of something here. Bob's upset. The posters? Yeah. Don't say "yeah" in that voice. This is important. Frank, Jesse, and Cole exchange looks. They turn back to the now puzzled crowd. Pardon the delay, folks, but we had to get Mad Bob Younger under control! Bob here'll kill a man for sneezing, and he's the best shot in the gang. Better than you, Jesse? Bob Younger taught me how to shoot! The crowd Now, we would like to get back to the robbery. Of course. The Head Teller starts filling a saddlebag with money. Bob glares at a few people, then nods at Jesse. Jesse winks back. - The place is alive with song, gambling, and the money the James Gang is dropping. At one table, Loni Packwood lays down his poker hand. As the other players moan, he rakes in the pot. Damn, Loni, you're lucky. Luckiest man in the West, now that I'm riding with Jesse James! He raises his lucky rabbit's foot in toast to Jesse, who is at the bar nursing a bottle of whisky with Frank. Jesse and Frank at the bar. This has been a good year. Jesse, we're outlaws. And we're good at it. It got to you, didn't it. All the killing in the war. You need it now. You've killed your fair share of men. If could go back to farming -- That's a lie. You could've bought a dozen farms with the money we've stolen. can't quit and leave you alone. can't quit until you quit. Ma would've wanted it that way. We're doing this for Ma. Maybe it started out that way. But now... What do you want me to say, Frank? was killing men when was fifteen. like getting shot at. like riding out of town with a posse at my back. This is a helluva better life than farming. better life than the one you could have had with Zee? Jesse the whisky bottle against the wall. At the the saloon falls silent. Every eye turns to the James boys. Frank stands up. I'll bet you every dollar we've stolen that she hasn't read a single one of the letters you've sent her. Jesse is boiling. His hand twitches. You going to throw down on me, Jesse? Jesse's jaw is grinding. Don't do this, Frank. You know love you. Frank nods, embraces his brother. The saloon noise again. Frank steps away. We're drunk. Oh yeah. Just do me a favor. Think about what this is costing everybody. Not just the railroad. Jesse nods and Frank Jim Younger, also drunk, steps up. You okay, Jesse? Yeah. Hey, are you drinking whisky? You're too young to be drinking whisky. Not too young to shoot a man, not to young to drink. (jolted) guess so. was always jealous Web Mimms got to go off and fight with you and Cole. Now it's my turn. Jesse takes this in silently. Jim, you been with a girl yet? Tonight? Why, I'm just getting ready to turn on the Younger charm. Jesse raises an eyebrow. Well, not exactly. You been with a girl ever? (insulted) Hell yeah! been with... (sighs) Uh, not exactly. It's just, don't want to get one of these paid ladies, you know? think so. You and Frank and Cole, and even Bob, get all these girls because you're good looking and famous. You don't have to pay. They just look at me like I'm the baby brother. (then) Don't tell anyone, okay Jesse? swear. (whispering) Tell you something else. (belches) can't drink that good neither. I'm going to go outside and throw up. You do that. Jim stumbles away and We hear him a moment later. Jesse thinks for a moment, beckons over the bartender. - Jim stumbles back in. pretty young woman, approaches him. Excuse me. Are you Jim Younger? Jim pulls himself together. Why, yeah. hope you don't mind, Jesse James told me your name. (crestfallen) Oh, you were talking to Jesse. Yes, but just so could find out who you were. Jim brightens. Really? hope I'm not being too forward. Not at all. just though you were awful cute. Thank you, Miss -- ? Lyla Devereux. Gosh, that's a pretty name. Buy you a drink? Could we go upstairs and talk? It's so loud down here. (trying to stay smooth) Why don't we get a bottle of sherry to sip while we talk? That is so gentlemanly of you. As they head to the bar, Jesse slide some money to the bartender. (crossing) Devereux. My brother Cole dated a European girl once. Really? Don't talk about it much, though. Parker is leading Rains into the room. Rains his ever-present Pocketwatch. The final route for the railroad is complete. look forward to seeing it. group of wait around, wearing forced smiles. Parker shows Rains the map. the wall-sized map of the United States. The plainly marked extends due west from New York, through Philadelphia, a straight shot west -- -- until it reaches Missouri, where it takes a painfully obvious swing in a large semi-circle south of the state, then swings up again and continues due west. Rains takes this in. Parker and the railroad men are trying to look casual. Parker. Sir? What is that? What, sir? Suddenly, viciously, Rains and his face against the map. (calmly) That. (strangled) Oh, that. I'll let Jenkins explain. Rains drops Parker, who slides to the floor stunned. He turns to who is suddenly in an open area cleared by the retreating railroad men. Sir. Jenkins. We've done a financial study of the construction costs projected into -- Jenkins. It's cheaper to go around Jesse James, sir. Even with the detour and the extra track. It's just cheaper. Rains turns to look at the map. So he's won. No. The entire group looking at a serene Pinkerton staring at the James Gang tracking map, which is now festooned with red markers. Every three months, the James Gang circles back to the vicinity of Liberty, Missouri. They always pull a job right before they return, probably to have extra money to give family and friends. In English, Pinkerton. There are only four banks within that travel radius which they have not robbed. Can you put men at all four? No need. have another tool at my disposal which will narrow it down to one bank. What is that? (smiling) Why, their intense hatred of you, of course. The room holds its breath. Rains begins to smile back. - populous town with the fanciest we've seen yet. - - Out on a sidewalk, Jesse stands alone at the edge of the building. He's holding an envelope. reveals the address: "Miss Zerelda Mimms, Liberty, Missouri." as Jesse reaches up to the street lantern and lights the envelope on fire. He drops it to the ground and watches it smolder. Bob Younger walks up, holding a "Wanted" poster. Finally. Jesse looks, grins. The sketch is a dead ringer for Bob. The things a fella has to do to get a little respect around here... You are a fine figure of a man. Listen, Jesse, we've got a problem. (off his look) It's Cole. He's been full of vinegar lately. He's planning a job. What? Listen, he's my brother and don't want to start trouble... Tell me. - Back in a semiprivate card room, Cole is talking to the rest of the Gang. It'll be the biggest score yet. What will be? Jesse and Frank step from the shadows. Cole tosses them a newspaper. Hyperion Bank, two day's ride from Liberty. They've got a hundred thousand dollars in railroad money just sitting there. Jesse tosses the paper aside. Smells funny, it being mentioned in the paper. If you'd read about it first, you'd have no problems. What are you saying? I've robbed just as many banks as you have! know this town, and know this bank, and say it's an easy job. You're forgetting who's in charge -- (calming him) Jesse. Oh, you're in charge? We ain't partners any more, Jesse? You tell Cole Younger where and when to ride? Cole, he didn't mean that. You taking sides against me, now, Frank? No, -- So being with me is being against you? Well, we don't want to do that! None of us poor idiots want to go up against the famous Jesse James, greatest outlaw who ever lived! Jesse glares at Cole. The Gang is murmuring amongst themselves. That's what the newspapers say. Weren't for Jesse James, this gang wouldn't be able to find a goat's ass with a stick. What? Clell Miller leans forward. You have got mighty full of yourself lately, Jesse. You think so. You all do? (to Frank) You? Frank hesitates a half-second too long. (spitting) Beautiful. Now the one time one of us comes up with an idea -- bad idea. got us through the War all right. And almost got hanged in peacetime. That's it. Cole for Jesse, and in a flash they're streetfighting, all elbows and knees and rib punches, and Frank and Bob try to break it up, but it's too fierce. Let them fight it out. The poison needs to leave the wound, to heal. Jesse lands a knocking Cole away. Cole goes for his gun, and in a blur they've both and stand facing each other with cocked six-guns. The Gang watches in stunned silence. This is healing? Sometimes a wound will kill. Now you tell us. (edging in) Boys, we don't want this. Neither Jesse nor Cole will back down. They circle, still keeping their guns up. (gritted teeth) I'm the better soldier, Jesse. And I'm the better outlaw. Jim steps up. And you both hate the railroad. That's what's important. We do this job, and Thaddeus Rains won't dare come West again. Jesse's gaze slides to Jim. What about that Rock Island bastard? It's his money. He's putting up the payroll out of his own fortune. You do want to hurt Thaddeus Rains, don't you Jesse? Jesse and Cole stare at each other again. Still smells fishy. Then let me run the show, General Lee. Jesse thumbs down the hammer of his Colt. Cole does the same. The entire Gang breathes out as one. Fine. We hit this bank. You'll be smiling once you've got all that money to spend, cousin. (to Gang) Cole Younger's going to make everybody rich! The Gang Frank watches Jesse cross to the and sag against it, exhausted. - The James Gang rides up to the bank. can be seen behind the building opposite the bank. Jesse, Cole and Frank dismount and move swiftly to the bank doors. Comanche Tom, Jim Younger, Clell Miller and Loni Packwood dismount and take defensive positions. The few other Gang members stay on their horses, looking sharp. Cole holds up at the door, produces his shotgun. Frank and Jesse draw six guns. On Cole's lead, they Cole and the James brothers stride in. Nobody move! This is a robbery! The dozen or so farmers and tellers raise their hands. Loni is whistling away, rubbing his lucky rabbit's foot. He squints up at the sun, turns, then stops. He slowly turns back... reveals a dozen men at the edge of the opposite rooftop, aiming rifles... Loni lets his rabbit's foot drop... The As he falls back, we see the rabbit's foot hit the dusty ground... The Gang leaps for cover as a begins to tear up the bank face around them. Jesse, Frank and Cole whirl to face the door. What the -- in a mirror by the door reveals all twelve of the men in the bank drawing guns, shotguns, one rifle -- Jesse shoves Cole and Frank down. He a stool at the man with the rifle, dives right and across a big oak desk. The men begin to As around him, Jesse from between his legs as he rolls across the desk. The assassins start to drop. Jesse completes his roll at a railing separating the manager's area from the bank floor. In one smooth move he's up and defying gravity, drawing his shoulder Colts and shooting... The gunmen are crossing into each other's line of fire, Jesse's movement confusing them. Jesse's killed another five, only four left, but he's out of railing and -- Through a teller's cage, disappearing behind the counter. The gunmen turn and the wooden counter, some screaming in panic. are heard as hammers fall on empty magazines. The gunmen stare at where Jesse disappeared, panting heavily. They forgot about Cole and Frank. The Gang is scrambling for cover. Loni's body lies in the street, his rabbit's foot lying in a pool of his blood. The Gang is returning fire, hiding behind water troughs, dead horses, barely staying alive. The is deafening. Head for the end of the street! Look! At both ends of the street, into position, each manned by two armed Pinkertons. The Gang is trapped. shot of the open, empty Dammit! trap. Cole turns. Jesse is moving the surviving cowboys into the Vault. As the last one steps in, Jesse the door closed. Frank runs in from the back of the bank. Another dozen out back. They gonna rush us? They're just insurance in case we run. Jesse crosses to the front door. Jesse sticks his head out the door. Get inside, you -- Gunfire chews up the doorframe. Jesse pulls back inside. Frank and Cole are shooting through the windows. They're all pinned down. Can't even get to the door. Got any ideas, little brother? Jesse thinks, then smiles. Oh Lord. Jesse comes through a window! He rolls to a stop next to one of the horses, grabs a saddlebag, then -- to the disbelief of the Gang -- he pivots and right back into the Bank! Jesse stumbles to his feet, yanks open the bag. Sticks of dynamite tumble out. Oh Lord. across the trapped Gang, still under fire, to the front of the next door Saloon, and then Where wary patrons have taken cover from the gunfire. Suddenly -- One wall into dust! In the hole we see the interior of the Bank and -- Jesse James running through, already readying another stick of dynamite -- Where the Pinkerton gunmen are shooting at the Gang. Some of the gunmen look curiously as the windows to the building two doors down from the bank As the two Pinkerton detectives at the wagon barricade turn in shock as Jesse James of a building he can't possibly be in, lands on the wagon, rolls off and a blacksmith shop across the street. They suddenly notice a They stand, look in the wagon. Jesse left a burning stick of dynamite in the wagon. the wagon into matchsticks. The blacksmith is gone, but there's a fire in the Jesse leaps and the forge -- The white-hot coals everything. The Pinkertons firing on the gang notice rising from below them. They look down ... bellowing and enveloping the entire row of buildings below them. The roof as a runs to ledge and looks at the rising flames himself. is heard large creeps over the snipers. They turn and look up -- -- at the Water Tower towards them! The Pinkertons dive out of the way as the tower onto the roof, unleashing a of water! of the sniper's ledge as the Pinkertons leap off, followed by a -- to see the water into the building from above -- Cowboys out the windows, followed by of water -- One Pinkerton and carried off the roof, off a second floor balcony and lands in a puddle on the dirt street below. the water rushing across the dirt street to the feet of -- Jim, Tom and the Gang staring in disbelief at the total destruction Jesse has wrought. Jesse rides out from a stable leading a team of horses. He reaches the bank. No time to gawk, boys, we got somewhere else to be! Frank and Cole rush out from the bank. The Gang leaps onto the horses and put the spurs to them hard. the Gang galloping past the shattered wagon barricade, heading for the edge of town. Pinkerton riflemen run out of the bank and from behind the other barricade. One with a rifle drops to one knee, lines up... shows Jesse in his sights. He tightens on the trigger, and just as he pulls -- -- Jim Younger rides into the line of fire! With a the bullet hits Jim square in the back. He slumps forward on his horse. Comanche Tom leaps from his horse onto Jim's and urges it on. The James Gang disappearing past the edge of town. The Pinkertons stand stunned amongst the ruin of their ambush. Alan Pinkerton himself walks up, shaking his head. - The Gang rides up onto a wooded hill where huge rocks jut from the earth. They all dismount, Jesse and Cole supporting Jim's limp form as they pull him from the saddle. Jim is drenched in blood. Okay, you're gonna rest here. Clell, Tom, go get Doc Mimms in Liberty! That's a long ride, Cole. We won't be back 'til morning. Then you better get going! Cole and Jesse are united again in their grief over Jim. Bob, rip up some bandages. Pass me some whisky. Jim's eyes flutter open for the first time. ... too young for whisky... This time we'll make an exception. Jesse, you explain to Lyla. My girl, you know, from that time... You're gonna tell her when you're resting up in bed with her, Jimmy. Jim, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Best time of my life. (weakly) was famous, y'know... Jim dies. Cole cradles the body, begins rocking. Comanche Tom puts a hand on Bob's shoulder as Bob slumps against a rock. Jesse stands, walks away heavily. - Sunset is heavy in the sky. Jesse stares off at it. His anguish is palpable. Frank comes over. Shoulda learned with Web. Made it look fun, made it look like an adventure. Got Web killed. Now Jim. Jim was old enough... (snorts) He was a boy riding with the most famous outlaws in the West. How was he supposed to say no to that? Railroad burned him out too. You couldn't have stopped him. You're a piss-poor liar for the smartest man know. Yeah. war against the railroad. What the hell were we thinking? I'm sure it seemed like a good idea at the time. Jesse remembers the first time Frank said that. He crosses the Gang. the Gang -- what's left of them -- waiting by the horses. The unspoken knowledge of whose fault this is hangs in the air. Cole is covered in Jim's blood. We'll make them pay for this. I'm out. We follow you for a year, and now that our blood's been spilled, you're gonna quit?! Who's next? You? Me? Bob? Cole can't answer. We can't exactly go back to our lives, Jesse. I'm not telling you what to do. You want to keep on following Cole, fine by me. Frank? Frank nods. He's leaving too. Go ahead. Ride on. But don't come back when you figure out you can't farm with a six-gun. Bob embraces Frank. Jesse goes to shake hands with Cole, but the guilt and rage make his once-best friend unapproachable. Jesse smiles sadly and walks away. - Zee is letting a dog out. She looks up, freezes. Entranced, she walks out onto the porch. figure appearing out of the early morning fog. It's Jesse, riding slow. He reins his horse in at the porch, dismounts. He stands staring at Zee. Zee. Jesse. What are you thinking? There are bounty hunters and lawmen all over this county! had to see you. I'm getting married. Zee is shocked. Jesse looks serious. don't understand. She's the most wonderful woman in the world. Can't get her out of my mind. That's... wonderful. It's just... thought... She's beautiful. Smart. And has the biggest... buck teeth in all of Missouri. It takes Zee a second. Before she can process it all, Jesse drops to one knee. I've quit my outlaw ways. Come live in my home and in my heart. Zee takes the hat off Jesse's head, tosses it into the yard and smiles. Jesse stands up and they kiss. - Victorian wooden houses with tin roofs and palm trees line the street. Jesse and Zee ride in the back of the open carriage. They can't take their eyes off each other. would never have imagined us in a place like this. That's why picked it. We can start a whole new life down here. Are you going to be happy here, Mr. James? Without all that excitement? I've got you. You keep me busy. figure we'll get over to the hotel... get checked in, cleaned up... then I'd like to do something I've been thinking about for a long time. Now wait a minute. There are certain things that have to wait until after the wedding. Jesse leans forward to the Driver, change of plans. Take us to the nearest church. What religion? Whichever one has God in it, that'll do fine. - sits at his desk while Jesse finishes filling out a marriage license. This is unusual. Most of our marriages are members of the congregation. You don't think God'll mind, do you? Jesse slides him two twenties with the license. The Lord is remarkably tolerant of the charitable. (reading the license) "Jesse Woodson James." Jesse James? The Jesse James? could have lied suppose, but want this marriage to be legal. just want you to know, I'm trying to start a new life here. I'm depending on your... Discretion? Sir, am a man of the cloth. Thank you. Who needs to repair a leaky church roof. Grinning, Jesse slides over another forty. Now let's have a drink. Right here in church? Communion. The Pastor pours. They drink. - The as Jesse and Zee walk out the front door arm in arm. The Pastor and his wife appear in the doorway, waving. Jesse and Zee hop in a waiting carriage. - Various townsfolk are lined up at the window. Cole, Bob, Comanche Tom, Clell and some Nobody move! This is a robbery. Everybody's hands reach for the ceiling. Cole gestures to the Teller. The safe. Now. Of course! (pause) Uh, sir? What? Where is Jesse James? This here is the Younger Gang! speaks out timidly. But the Youngers ride with Jesse James. Did ride. No more. The crowd grumbles, plainly disappointed. All right, all right. (muttering) Jesse James never yelled at folk... Bob and Comanche Tom exchange looks behind a fuming Cole. - The new Gang is spending its booty. Cole is putting a healthy dent in a bottle of rotgut. Bob is consoling him. This is the best score yet. It's still taking too long. The people used to snap to. That was because of... the reputation the gang had. As long as people think Jesse's still riding, we will never get the respect we deserve. Cole, we're outlaws. Not exactly the most respectable job, if you know what mean. Leave me alone, Bob. Even Bob can't reach Cole now. He walks sadly away. - deserted Keys beach -- coconut palms and Australian pines. Clear water like glass stretching off forever. Jesse and Zee are having a picnic on the white sand. Both are in the latest in beach attire. He's in a one-piece that goes from his neck to his knees. Zee's in what is basically a dress with long pantaloons. Zee is reading. Jesse is stretched out on the sand. Hmm. "Hmm" what? (reading) "But the life of the James Gang wasn't all robbing and shooting and killing, for these young Missouri bucks had a taste for the ladies... especially the handsome and charismatic Jesse James." Jesse sits up. beg your pardon? (showing him the cover) "Blazing Guns of the West. True Stories of Jesse James." Only a dime in the hotel lobby. Let me see that. Oh, I'm not finished. (reading) "When he sauntered into a saloon, his spurs jangling and his pockets full of gold, the ladies flocked around him like flies to a candied apple." (looking at him) As said. Hmm. Now, sweetie, y'all wouldn't go believing one of them silly dime novels, would you? Jesse, have you ever noticed that when you're trying to charm your way out of trouble, your accent gets all farm boy? Aw, shucks, ma'am... Stop it. This is just sad. Swimming. Swimming is good. Jesse jumps up and second later, he reaches down and a chuckling Zee up out of the sand. - Jesse chases Zee out into the surf. They splash around until the water gets shoulder-deep, then both submerge. They reappear, locked in a kiss. Zee's face as they break the kiss and embrace. She's in heaven. She opens her eyes, facing the beach. Something passes over her face. the beach, where fifty Pinkerton detectives with rifles are lined up like a firing squad. Zee's face. She squeezes Jesse tighter. Don't turn around. What? If you don't see it, it's not real... Jesse turns around to see -- familiar figure walking along the sand. When the figure reaches the center of the line of detectives, he turns to the couple and -- Jesse James, you are under arrest! Jesse takes one longing gaze at the open ocean. He heads for shore. Cole and the Gang are killing time. Bob runs in. They arrested Jesse! He throws the paper to the other Gang members, but walks straight to Cole. The two brothers stare at each other. How'd they -- What have you done? ain't done -- Bob draws on Cole. Cole is shattered. Bob. didn't... Swear. swear -- Swear on Jimmy's grave. Cole hesitates. Bob thumbs back the hammer. Comanche Tom's hand closes over Bob's gun. Bob. You know Cole would never do such a thing. He and Jesse are best friends. They are cousins, blood brothers. Bob considers it, lowers the gun. I'm sorry, Cole. You're just upset about Jesse. We all are. Bob walks off. Comanche Tom speaks, but keeps his eyes on Bob. My people know that when a brother kills a brother, a great curse comes down on that man, and when he dies he walks the desert as a dark spirit. like Bob too much to let that happen. (looking at Cole) If find out you turned in Jesse, I'll kill you myself. Comanche Tom moves off. Cole's thoughts are his own. - An establishing shot of the Florida fort being lashed by rain. dank, black cell far in the bowels of Fort Jefferson. Jesse doing push-ups. They come easily, despite Jesse being chained up like the Frankenstein monster. The Jesse looks up in mid-push-up. Alan Pinkerton is looking down at him. Jesse moves to the bed. Pinkerton, flanked by two guards, He sits on a stool provided by one of the guards. We're moving you tomorrow. But like the presidential suite. Oh, it's a similar room. But the hotel is in Washington You're not going to get a fair trial down here, in front of a jury of Jesse James sympathizers. So I'll get a fair trial in front of a jury bought off by Thaddeus Rains? That's the idea. Pinkerton produces two cigars, presenting one to Jesse. Did you order our houses burned down? Not that day. am guilty of many things, but that was Mr. Thaddeus Rains and Parker, that day. Jesse takes the cigar, and Pinkerton lights both. They puff for a moment. (tapping bad leg) Was this you, by the way? Jesse exposes his scar. You almost ended my career before it began. Pity. Pause. How did you spot the ambush in Torrell? Last February? Mmm. You had all those cattle there, so I'd think the extra men were in town from the cattle drive? Yes? The cows had a brand from a farm just five miles out of town. Damn. Pause. Almost got me in Billings. saw you there, shooting at me. went myself to oversee the operation. Didn't help much. No, that one was close. couple fellas quit after that one. Oh. That's nice to know. (then) We're going to hang you, you know. figured. Was it worth it? Should have just killed Thaddeus Rains and been done with it. That's what would have done. I'm not hanged yet. (shaking his head) You cocky little bastard. Ahh, you'll miss me. No, I'll hang you. (then) But may miss you just a bit. As Jesse and Pinkerton smoke and discuss the past year... Two guards are leading Jesse, who is in heavy arm irons, toward a prison car at the end of a waiting train. Pinkerton, Thaddeus Rains, and Parker walk up. This is him. remember you. You're Parker. remember you, too. You killed my Ma. Parker is set back by Jesse's voice. To cover his fear -- How did you know? Not such a menace now, is he, Pinkerton? If you feel that way, could always take off the irons. Rains glares at Pinkerton, then turns back to Jesse. You stole thousands. You cost me tens of millions of dollars, months of lost construction. wish could hang you every single morning for a century. Rains checks his Pocketwatch, spots Jesse eyeing it. You like that? Solid gold, my father had it made when he started this railroad. He gave it to me when took over, I'll give it to my son when he runs this company, and he'll give it to his son -- The right type of men will always run this country, Jesse James, and little men like you will always suffer. You have stopped nothing. Made you think twice about burning folks' homes down now, didn't Jesse winks. With that Parker reaches back and Jesse. Rains gloats as Jesse gets his breath back. We'll speak again in Washington, you insect. You're coming on the same train? Rains involuntarily looks behind Jesse. Jesse cranes his head and spots a at the front of the train, several cars away from his prison car. The other cars are packed with Pinkerton detectives. Well, tell you what. I'm going to have to pay you a visit. Big words. It's a promise. Everyone is a little shaken by the steel in Jesse's voice. The guards The guards turn Jesse over to a Pinkerton enters just behind him. There are ten detectives in total in the car. Hook him up. The Burly Detective brings Jesse's arms above his head. He loops Jesse's chain over a rail that runs the length of the car. Two other detectives walk Jesse down the car, Jesse's hands suspended over his head. Jesse can just barely sit down. Now the guns. don't like it. We can handle him. In the ten seconds we have been in this car, have seen you get close enough for Jesse James to grab your guns at least three times. And assure you, if he gets his hands on one of your guns, you are all, and mean all dead men. He's chained up. I'll put that on your tombstone. The guns. Grumbling, the detectives deposit their pistols in a box near the front of the car. Pinkerton walks out. The Burly Detective slides a Colt into his waistband. Jesse, alone, surrounded by ten Pinkerton guards. The train and they're off. - The prison train highballs through the wooded, rolling hills. We see the engine, the coal car, a detective car, then the private salon car, two more cars of guards, and then the prison car. Five guards are playing poker. Five others are standing along the length of the car. Jesse looks at the gun box waaay down the other end of the car. Things shift, and we (and Jesse) realize the train is going downhill. Hey, fatty. The Burly Detective looks up. What? You, ya barrel of pork lard. Here piggy piggy! The detectives close on Jesse. Jesse stands as the Burly Detective moves right up on him. What you sayin' boy? think recognize you. How? think saw you leavin' by the front door just as was coming in the back. The other detectives try to hide grins. You shut up now, boy. No, really. You're wife said she needed some help, seeing as you were so fat you couldn't find your -- Burly Detectives Jesse. Jesse spits blood and grins. Yeah, she said you did that to her too. Burly draws, points the gun right at Jesse's face. The other detectives Jesse stares down the barrel, then raises his eyes and speaks in a voice that is low and terrifying. Y'know, could do this without the gun, but it just makes things easier. as Jesse Burly in the crotch! The gun missing Jesse's head only because he jerks it like a mongoose. Jesse the detective with the heavy chain! The gun drops right into Jesse's hands -- The guards are running for the gun box -- Jesse flips the chain and from the back wall and over the detectives' heads! As he reaches the end he the gun, blowing open the gun box. Jesse then the rail's ceiling strut, and then at the roof. The rail dropping Jesse to the floor. In a blur he's up, reaching into the gun box. He tosses one gun then of another. Half the guards drop, but the other half are right on top of him and nobody's that fast -- Jesse drops the spent gun, the other gun in the opposite hand and all in a single breath! As the smoke clears, the last of the detectives falls with a Jesse pops open the door to his car. He's improvised a gunbelt like his old one, holding six Colts. He's still holding the chain from his restraints. Now that they're no longer wrapped around Jesse, we see they're at least a few yards long. Some Pinkertons as a sounds from on top of the car. And Jesse and -- as the chains -- fastened to the roof -- go taut and Jesse is at window level and he's into the car! Pinkertons falling, drawing their guns, not able to get a bead on Jesse because -- Jesse is running along the side of the car, supported by the chain! Still shooting, he reaches the end, and is on the roof again. one Detective, barely alive, stumbling through the door, opening the door to the next The detectives inside start as the wounded man falls into the doorway. Jesse looks down and sees heavily armed Pinkertons coming out of the doorway. Shit. But there's no turning back and he jumps to the top of the Jesse's running and the Pinkertons start the roof. Jesse miraculously is untouched, almost to the Pinkerton is already moving as Parker and Thaddeus Rains look around. What the hell is that sound? Vengeance. Pinkerton bursts in. The men snap to. Outside! Get up on top! Go Jesse onto the club car, but pulls up short as detectives appear ahead of him. He turns to see other detectives climbing up behind him. He's trapped. The engine Sparks fly as the twisted engine onto the tracks! The momentum carries everyone off their feet! Some detectives are torn from the train. Jesse slides across the roof of the Club Car -- a smoking sitting on the tracks. Frank and Cole on horseback shading their eyes. Zee is daintily blowing out a fuse lighter. Nice shot. Thank you. Now go get my husband. The two men start to gallop toward the train. Jesse, Pinkerton, and the detectives look down the track and see... Frank and Cole riding toward them. From the woods ride Comanche Tom and Bob Younger, folding into perfect formation. The four toward the train. Pinkerton rushes back in. Parker and Rains are looking out the window. There's only four of them... Move you fools! He grabs the two businessmen and heads them to the rear of the train. Frank draws a gun and pour out of the woods, all firing at the Pinkerton! The Pinkertons return fire, taking shelter in the train cars as the riders strafe the train. Jesse swings over the edge of the train, looks through the window. Rains is gone. He turns and starts running back along the top of the train. Pinkerton, Rains and Parker tumble out of the door and run for the woods. Jesse from the top of the train onto Pinkerton! They wrestle, separate. Pinkerton stands, reaching for his gunbelt. Empty. With almost a resigned sigh, he looks up. Jesse's pointing the gun at Pinkerton's head. Do it. Jesse Pinkerton, stunned to realize he's still alive. He turns to see Parker, fall to the ground, his own gun half-drawn, Jesse turns the gun on Rains. That was for my Ma. Now this is for everybody else. He's too important, James. They'll set the army on you. You and your wife. Jesse stares at Rains, Rains stares back, the tension building...Jesse's about to shoot...and says: That is a nice watch you got there. Rains looks down at the fob, back up. The tension isn't broken. tell you what, I'll buy that watch from you, for the fair market price approved by the Department of the Interior: one dollar. Rains hesitates. Jesse thumbs the hammer back If were you, I'd sell. After this, the price goes...down. Rains tosses the Watch to Jesse as Jesse simultaneously Rains a dollar coin with his free hand. Jesse holds up the Watch. Now every time you go to look at this watch and it's not there, you'll remember: You can be stopped. Pass that down to your son, instead. Jesse thumbs the hammer forwards, lowers the gun. Rains falls to his knees, numb from the tension. Frank rides up. Jesse empties Pinkerton's gun and hands it to him. Pinkerton holds him for a second. (low) Tennessee. Jesse doesn't understand. The railroad has no business in Tennessee. Therefore have no interest in the state of Tennessee. Thanks. I'd just as soon kill you, Jesse James. But chasing you takes up too much of my time. Fair enough. Zee Jesse onto her horse, and then they with Frank. We centering on Pinkerton, Rains, and revealing the smoking, burning wreckage of the train. - Most of the Gang is mounted. Frank, Cole and Bob are standing there, watching. Jesse and Zee riding up on one horse. You get arrested again, I'll kill you. Yes ma'am. can't believe had to blow up a train for you. You are a hell of a woman. Don't swear. Yes ma'am. They reach the Gang. Jesse his horse, gets one of Cole's Missed you, cousin. Missed you too, cousin. Jesse notices Cole is oddly emotional, but can't quite figure out what's going on. You know, you gettin' caught, right after leaving us, some people thought -- Pff. All we been through, the thought never crossed my mind. The two clasp hands. Things changed when you quit the gang. For example, I'm now the one who says "Let's ride." He's not bad at it. It's tougher than it looks. Where'd you get all these riders? We didn't. Zerelda did. Turns out your wife makes a hell of an outlaw. So what's the plan? Jesse looks at Zerelda and Frank. think my wife and might go down Tennessee way, buy a farm. (pause) Goodbye, boys. The Youngers smile sadly, but As the Younger brothers Comanche Tom leans down from the saddle and shakes Jesse's hand. You stay out of trouble, Jesse. Nobody has as much luck as you used up today. Jesse getting back on his horse with Zee. Frank stands there and watches them. I'll meet you down there in a few weeks. See you soon. Oh, and appreciate the distraction back there. Hell, they hardly even noticed us. Jesse and Frank grin. Let's ride! Jesse flips the reins and he and Zee the with the Youngers in the opposite direction. Frank watches them ride away. faintly: Tennessee? I'll explain on the way. Then it's Frank alone on the hill. around behind him, come around, see he's a little, and now he's we come around one more time and... - - ...we and see young Frank James is now an older Still lean, a few wrinkles, a little grey in the hair, dressed in expensive turn-of-the-century western clothes. young man who looks remarkably like Jesse, 16 years old, is waiting patiently. The two are looking down on the town of Liberty, Missouri, which is now swollen five sizes larger. The Wild West is disappearing under roads and telegraph wire. Y'know, Uncle Frank... Yeah, Jimmy? (genially chiding) ...every time you tell that story, you stop there. That's not how it ended. was five when my dad got shot. know. But that's how it should have ended. Your Dad and Mom, riding off into a new life, growing old together, happy. They start to walk back to the edge of town. Allow a man his version of the past. When you get to be my age, you've got enough painful memories, you're allowed to soften a few of the edges up. Sounds like he was a hell of a man. (chuckling) That he was. They're making him a hero now. Saved a lot of folk from the railroad. But he killed a lot of men, too. Can't argue that. So what was he? think... he was just a real interestin' fella to have around. Frank chuckles again at the memories, claps his hand on Jimmy's shoulder. Come on, your Ma's probably holding dinner for us. Once saw the woman blow up a train, don't want to tick her off... Jimmy grins and the pair walk down the hill. We stay as they continue talking. Uncle Frank? Yeah Jimmy? How much of that story is true? Everything but the boring parts. of and enjoying their years as farmers, with like and the also included. American Outlaws : Roderick Taylor John Rogers : Acti