Property of: Western Renaissance Pictures, Inc. 6381 Hollywood Blvd., Suite 680 Hollywood, California 90028 Screenplay by Sam Raimi and Ivan Raimi January 3, 1991 Registered with the Writers Guild of America, 1991 c 1991 by Sam and Ivan Raimi. All rights reserved. Shooting Script 2/26/91 This is Ash, mid twenties, square jaw firmly set and a pair of haunted eyes which dart about quickly in fear. Ash speaks to the with urgency: Why would you say that am insane? wouldn't say that I've lost my mind simply because I've heard the voices and seen the godless things moving in the woods. If anything, think more clearly now than ever before. know now that there is such a thing as a living Evil. dark and shapeless thing that lives not in the spaces we know, but between them. In the Dark. In the night. And it wants the exact same thing as you and a chance at warm life on this Earth. It doesn't care that is already had that chance ...once. Now listen closely because there isn't much time. Listen and believe, because it's all true. nestled in a dark forest. Through the window, we see the tiny figure of Ash picking up a book from a desk. first saw the damn thing at that blasted cabin. The Necronomicon. An ancient Sumarrian text, bound in human flesh and inked in human blood. It contained bizarre burial rites, prophesies...and instruction for demon resurrection. It was never meant for the world of the living. Ash flips through the pages from the The book awoke something dark in the woods. inscribed on the pages. Illustrations of demonic faces with white eyes. We take the point of view of a wind-like demon, swooping low through the woods toward the cabin. rips through the cabin door and comes upon a Ash. It got into my hand and it went bad. twisting into a claw, before the flashing thunder clouds. So lopped it off at the wrist. severs his hand from his wrist with the chainsaw. sweep past the moon. In order to rid myself of the foul thing, read from a passage in the book that was supposed to open a hole. hole in Time that would send the Evil back. And it worked. recites the incantation from the Necronomicon. The Time vortex is created. Trees and a 1973 Delta 88 Oldsmobile are sucked up into the funnel cloud. just didn't plan on coming along. Ash, now armed with shotgun and chainsaw, is swallowed by the funnel-cloud of the Time vortex. Ash is rocketing through a funnel of swirling clouds. He is swept away from us, hand over foot, through the dark void of Time. swirls through blackness as a chorus of women's voices build to eerie crescendo, from a musical note to a The smoke swirls, pulls in upon itself, like a thing alive, and forms the words: "Vs" The smoke is wisked away, then reforms as... The title billows past its hands winding backwards at an insane rate, spins angrily past, revealing other debris that has been swept up into this funnel cloud. Tumbling weightless through this void we find... He but there is no sound. No scream. Only the steady of his heart. He shields his eyes from a sudden bright light. The funnel cloud electrifies. at the fabric of Time. All is quiet. Then, an electrical disturbance in the shape of a human body flashes briefly and is gone. moment latter, Ash appears and tumbles from the sky, falling past falls to the dust. His double barrelled shotgun lands beside him. The '73 Oldsmobile comes to the ground a moment later. looks up from the dust to behold... in 12th century armor ride up over a hill. They halt before Ash. thrusts his longsword into the air, shouting: Hail to him who has come from the sky to deliver us from the terror of the Deadites! Hail! stares in confusion at the strange medieval figures. join in the chant and hail Ash, but suddenly stop as... the muscular commander of the group, gallops his horse into frame, followed by who are his lieutenants. Arthur lifts his iron visor and evaluates Ash. The Delta 88 Oldsmobile. The chainsaw, strapped to Ash's back. The handless stump of Ash's right arm. The Shotgun. waves a shaky hand. Take is easy now chief. don't know how got here and I'm not lookin' for any trouble. An elderly man, in a long black cloak, steps forward. My Lord Arthur, believe he is the promised one, written of in the Necronomicon. Brings his sword down across Ash's chest. Ash cries out in pain as... is cut. thin red gash. He bleeds. As a man bleeds. The one written of in the Book would not bleed. and to four prisoners bound in iron shackles. Likely, he is one of Henry's men. say to the pit with him! If he is truly the promised one... he will emerge. Aye! The pit's a fair test! To the pit with the blackard! charges his horse at Ash. But he is met with the wooden stock of Ash's shotgun as it swings into frame, cracking against his jaw. He tumbles from the horse. leaps atop Gold Tooth's horse and jerks the reigns. rears up, kicking it's hooves into the air. gallops off as Warrior #2 runs at him. Ash kicks him in the face as he gallops past. The Warrior is sent reeling. galloping over a hill. He is almost thrown by the horse, but manages to hang on for dear life. Where the hell they put the stirrups on this thing!!?? grasping at the side of the horse, hoping to find some purchase. he rides past almost falling from the horse. Fetch me the blackard. unsheathe their broadswords and gallop after Ash. The remaining Warriors watch for sport. They are gaining an Ash. glances behind him. They diverge to either side of whips his horse. rides up alongside Ash and swings his Broadsword. ducks the blade. rides up alongside Ash's other flank. He swings and lands the flat part of his blade along Ash's back. ducks as the first horseman swings his blade again. looks left... winds up for another blow. yanks back upon his horse's reigns. running side by side. Ash's horse drops back suddenly. swings. slams the First Horseman across the face. is knocked from his steed. is moving fast when he hits the ground. His armored form tumbles end over end in the dust, clanging to a halt against a rock. turns around and gallops back toward Ash. ride at one another. swinging his Broadsword. He inserts the stump of his right arm into the female end of his chainsaw arm bracket. He twists his stump and the chainsaw bracket locks into place. He thrusts his chainsaw arm outward, pulling on the starter cord; The engine won't turn over. He curses and yanks again. draws close. He leans from his horse and swings his Broadsword mightily. The flat portion of the blade connects. is knocked from his steed. He tumbles to the dust, narrowly escaping his own horse's hooves. rolls to his feet and spins to the sound of approaching hooves! charges and swings his broadsword. raises his chainsaw. He deflects the blow. Ash swings the chainsaw in a roundhouse motion, clipping the Second Horseman as he rides past. is knocked from his horse. bounces along the rocky ground, kicking up dust. slams against the back of Ash's skull. crumples. He looks up in pain to... above him. The sun over his shoulder. gallop up, dismount and surround Ash with swords drawn. Bring the prisoner! The warriors surge upon Ash. His sawed-off shotgun and chainsaw are taken from him. No! secure Ash to a set of iron shackles that painfully extend his arms. collar forces his neck upward. To the castle! prods Ash along with a rod attached to his spiked iron collar. The Warriors gallop off, forcing Ash and the other prisoners to run alongside them. Picks up the chainsaw and sawed off shotgun from the dust. He is troubled by the strange objects. Sunlight glints off the blade of the chainsaw, blinding the blazing in the sky above the wasteland. bound in his iron shackles, whipped by Gold Tooth, who rides alongside him. Move along now! along the line of Arthur and his horsemen, to find a built on the edge of a great cliff. drawbridge is lowered. Arthur's warriors ride over it. shackled alongside other prisoners, is prodded inside the castle walls. a striking, blonde haired maiden, rushes into frame. She searches the faces of Arthur's warriors and grows concerned. She pushes through a crowd of villagers and calls up to Arthur atop his horse. M'Lord Arthur! Where is my brother? Did he not ride with you? Eye. And fought valiantly. But last night fell in battle to Duke Henry's men. Her face does not immediately register the grief. She attempts to step forward but stumbles. She steadies herself against the stone wall. Her eyes harden as she sees the first of the shackled prisoners: a semi-conscious Ash. She flushes with anger and races up to him. She spits and kicks at him as he's dragged along. Foul thing! pox on your throat! Thou art a Murderer! black Murderer! restrain her. cries as the Village Women attempt to soothe her. May you be consoled by their suffering in the pit. halt. Iron keys rattle. The shackles are unlocked. Ash and the prisoners rub their reddened wrists. They are pushed at swordpoint towards a circular iron grate that sits atop the ground. This is looks to the jeering villagers that surround the pit, wondering what they have in store for him. stares at him in hatred. eyes Ash curiously. This is Duke Henry the Red. You sir, are not one of my vassals. Who are you? Who wants to know? am Henry the Red. Duke of Shale. Lord of the Northlands and leader of its people. You ain't leadin' but two things now, pal. Jack and shit. And Jack left town. address the doomed men: There is an Evil that has awakened in this land. And whilst my people fight for their very souls against it, you, Duke Henry the Red, wage war on us. Your people are no better than the foul corruption that lies in the bowels of that pit! May God have mercy on your souls. crank a massive wench. Chains tighten and the heavy iron lid slides back, revealing a dark hole. The Pit. a echoed wailing rises up. stiffen in fear. Aye. Into the pit with the bloodthirsty sons of whores! She jams a meat pie into her mouth and cheers excitedly as as he's thrown down into the pit. He disappears into the blackness. watching with disbelief. We hear the warrior's echoed cry of terror, then a as he hits bottom. looking down into the blackness we hear: beg of you... by all that's holy! Lower a rope! Lower... Oh, for the love of god! no! AIIIIIiiieee! The sound of ripping and scratching. The of terror is cut short as... erupts upward from the pit. Then silence. is frozen in fear. There! He's escaping! jerks from the pit to... making a break for it! He's past the guards, heading for the open drawbridge. spot him and fire arrows. They bounce off the Warrior's armor. He's makes it to the open drawbridge when... pulls back a iron arrow in his crossbow. He lets it fly. with arrow... The iron arrow punctures the Warrior's armor, pegging him to a wooden post. He dies standing. Cheers. They turn their attention to the remaining prisoners: from their bloodthirsty faces to the next prisoner in line... turns to Arthur and in a desperate, cowardly plea: Hey, never even saw these assholes before.. He spins to Duke Henry the Red. You gotta tell 'em you don't know me. We never met. Tell him. do not believe that he shall listen. grab Ash and shove him into the pit. tumbles down into the pit. He lands in a pool of foul water at the pit's bottom. He stands and coughs out a mouthful of the rancid water. He looks about. disappear into the blackness. spins to a small sound. Nothing. Just the mist rising from the water. shifts his glance again. rounds a corner and disappears from sight. doesn't notice the misty water behind him beginning to stir. Bubbles. hand emerges. Silently, a pair of bone white eyes break the surface. spins... but there's nothing there. As he turns back around, he is confronted by... It's rotted corpse rockets up from the water inches from Ash's face! Putrid water drains from it's empty eye sockets and mouth. It jerks like a marionette as it advances. and backs against the steep rock wall of the pit. He tries to scale the steep face. He gets one foot up. clutches Ash's ankle and yanks him back down. He falls away from the wall, his arms flailing. hoot and cheer for Ash to be devoured. grabs Ash, and begins hammering him with her rotted fists. shouts for Ash's death. The Deadite's fist enters frame, slugging Ash. is knocked back into a shallow pool of steaming water. races toward Ash, leaps into the air and comes down with a kneedrop onto Ash's stomach. cries out in pain. cross to form a scissor lock around the Deadite's throat. He flips the beast. rides into the castle, dismounts and pushes through the crowd with a bundle wrapped in cloth. grabs Ash by the throat. is thrown against the rock wall of the pit. advances. shouts down at Ash. trying to hear what the Wiseman is saying. His head jolts backward, barely avoiding the beast's wild swing. Ash squints to discern Wiseman John throwing something down to him: an object falling at him through the glare above. tumbling downward. Blinding beams of sunlight bouncing off its blade of steel. Ash's Excalibur! summons his strength and leaps upward. Tumbling downward... ascending, his teeth gritted, every muscle straining, he soars past Ash rising up through frame to meet the falling saw. snags the chainsaw, locking in onto his wrist bracket.CLICK! He lands on his feet, in the path of the approaching beast. Come on, you blasted piece of-- He thrusts out his chainsaw arm, yanking the starter cord and... gasp at the of the chainsaw. Blue exhaust billows up from the pit. lunges at Ash. Buzzzzz!! is splattered with black bile. flies upward, past the face of the bewildered beast. as it ascends, Ash and the Deadite grow smaller below. flies up into frame and latches onto the face of a drunken spectator. It's fingers dig into the eyes and nose. He shrieks and flails about, into the screaming crowd. Warrior tears the hand free from his face, tossing it back down into the pit. raises the chainsaw blade and neatly bisects the falling deadite hand. He spins and with a roundhouse blow... Ash decapitates the beast. stop cheering from the Deadite. They're starting to like this guy's guts and style. of the beast sink beneath the murky waters of the pit. climbs the steep wall of the pit when a emerges from the earthen wall before him. slams the butt end of the chainsaw into the beast, knocking it back into the water. gasp as... comes up, over the edge of the pit. Followed by... Ash's bloody hand. Then his bruised face. Covered in the black blood of the Deadites. He crawls to his feet. Ash tuns to the crowd, his list clenched. All right now. Who wants to be next? Who wants some. look at Ash stupidly. Ash shoves him. You want some more? Huh?! Gold Tooth and the others give him a wide berth. Ash calls out to Henry. Now climb on those horses and get out of here. quickly mount horses. Nay. Henry is my prisoners. He-- slaps Henry's horse. parts allowing... to gallop off toward the open drawbridge and freedom. stares at Ash with hatred. For that, shall see you dead. removes his sawed off shotgun from Wiseman John's horse and turns to Arthur, then the crowd. This is my boomstick. It's a twelve gauge, double barreled Remington pump. Next one of you primitives touch me... pointing the barrel just past Arthur. He, but no one else, has spotted the surviving Second Deadite crawling up from the pit on the forgotten chain. The crowds gasp is cut short by....BLAMMITY-BLAM! The shotgun belches flame. The blast cuts the chain, leaving the Deadite teetering at the pit's edge. The second shot blows the beast into a backflip, sending it summersaulting down into the pit. echoes off the mountains like distant thunder. look to Ash in reverence. twirls the shotgun about western style: and holsters it. Bring me your hoo do man. fly from a barren tree. It prowls, skimming the surface of the ground, moving swiftly past rocks and over the crest of a hill revealing... massive grouping of freestanding rectangular stones, each twenty feet tall. The remains of an ancient temple. In the center of the ruins there burns a roaring bonfire. As old Woman stirs a cauldron atop the flames. Nearby, Arthur converses with his four Lieutenants. opens his mouth to allow a spoonful of food to enter. No sooner has he swallowed then a piece of fruit is offered. He waves it away with a satisfied burp and turns to drink from a goblet on wine, brought to his lips by a female hand. sits across the flames from Arthur and his men. She bandages Ash's wounds. is dresses in a revealing tunic. She looks good. pray thee to forgive me. believed thee one of Henry's men. She touches Ash's hand. Ash turns away First you wanta kill me, now ya wanna kiss me. He spits out a mouthful of grape seeds. Lady, just leave me alone. I'm sorry m'lord. Please understand... T'is a cruel time for us. The Wisemen say you are the promised one. Our only hope against the darkness that has descended on this land. They're mistaken. She stares deeply into his eyes. think not. feel that there is reason for your being here. It is no accident. approach. They sit in tall stone chairs across the fire from Ash. Well what is it? Can you send me back or not? Only the Necronomicon has the power. power which we both require. It contains passages that can dispel the Evil from this place and return you to your time. The Necronomicon. Yeah, that's the thing that got me here. It is in a place far from here. It can only be retrieved by the Promised one. Other Warriors have tried. Their widows grieve still. We have waited long years for you. Out only hope is the Necronomicon. Thou must undertake to quest for it. Alone must thou travel to a distant cemetery. There thou shalt find it. Me? Now way, no day. Only place I'm goin' is home. sudden gust of wind whips up the flames of the fire. around the fire begin to snarl and fight. turn to see... now standing too close to the fire. Her robes ignites. She does not respond as flames sweep up her body. She continues to stir the caldron. His haw drops. He slowly stands as... spins sharply to him. Her voice changes as she Her eyes are bone white. She is by the dark spirit. Her burning body is violently jerked about in the air by invisible hands. Her blackened lips pull back in a wild animal snarl. With two voice at once; collapses. Her face turned away from the Wisemen as it lays in the dust. Unseen by all, her bone white eyes flare open! nasty grin forms on her face as she lies in the dust. Behind her, the Wisemen approach. kneels and reaches for her. clutches Wiseman John, not allowing him to touch her. It's a trick. Get an axe. awakens from her false slumber with a terrible In a frenzy she hurls into the bonfire. He and rolls in the dust, extinguishing the flames. With her great strength, the Possessed Woman pushes upon one of the giant stone archways. It topples over, crushing two warriors beneath it. topples the next stone. Which topples the next, which sets off a chain reaction. Like giant dominoes, they fall. watches the spectacle in horror as he sees... The gigantic falling stones coming right at She coming toward does a flying leap and tackles knocking her out of the stone's deadly path. rolls across the dusty stone courtyard. rolls into frame and glances up to see... rushing through the air at him with a latches onto Ash like an iron trap, knocking them both to the ground. rolls the Possessed Woman over, and into the path of... The falling, gigantic domino-like stones. in agony as... The multi-ton stone crushes her legs to paste. Her legs are pinned but still she battles on, clutching Ash about his throat! gasps for breath as he reaches behind him, into the flames of the fire, his fingers groping for a weapon. Her blackened lips pull back and her mouth opens to an impossibly large size, like a snake about to eat an egg. grasps a flaming log with his bare hands and rams it down the monster's oversized throat. She chokes. grab the beast and pull it off of Ash. Arthur comes to meet them. He carries a double-bladed battle axe. vomits out the flaming log, taking off a man's head. The Evil lives. Slay me and ten will rise to take my place. All will die. - is brought down upon her throat. The possessed body flails and spasm beneath the Warrior's grip. rolls, and comes to a halt at Ash's feet. It's eyes pop open! grabs the laughing head and tosses it into the darkness. The head sails away as the laughter receded. Now. Will thou quest for the Necronomicon? He considers. Ash and the blacksmith step into the shop. points to the hand piece on a hanging suit of battle armor. pounds upon the hand armor, modifying it. knits a grey woolen garment as she watches Ash. attaches the shock absorber spring to the iron hand. tightens the tension on the shock absorber springs with a ratchet like device. extends his arm triggering the tightly wound spring. gasps. open with great force. clenches closed with such great power, that it bends a iron goblet. He studies his new hand. It will do nicely. stares over the castle wall to the foreboding wasteland with apprehension. The wind blows upon his hair. Sheila appears behind him. She drapes a grey garment over Ash. magnificent cape. Ash draws her body close to his. He wraps the cape around her. Together they stare off into the night, then turn to one another and kiss. Arthur's castle in the distance. In the foreground, five men on horseback appear over a ridge, thundering toward us. Their long wool capes billowing up behind them in the wind. Arthur and Wiseman John ride, flanked by two of Arthur's Warriors. He wears an iron breastplate with the insignia of Arthur's army that compliments his new spring-powered iron hand. His chainsaw juts from it's saddle holster on the horse's back. Ash's cape billows as he rides. The Horsemen wind down a trail. Suddenly the horses rear up. The men gain control of the frightened steeds. What's going on? points to... It disappears abruptly into a swirling wall of mist that emits an eerie whistling. This is the edge of the land ruled by the Dark Spirit. This path will lead you to an unholy place. cemetery. There, the Necronomicon awaits. anxiously eyes the wall of swirling mist. finish placing saddlebags of water and food onto... which nervously pounds the earth with it's hooves. Lord Arthur, he is supplied. Now beg of you, let us leave this foul place. moment. moves close to Ash. As thou removest the Book from it's cradle, you must recite these words. Clatoo, verata, Nicto. Clatto Verata Nicto. Okay. Repeat them. Clatto Verata Nicto. Again. got it. got it. know your damn words. All right? Now you get this straight: get the book, you send me back. That's the deal. After that I'm history. Ash rears up on his horse and gallops into the mist watch as Ash disappears. The sound of form materializes out of the fog: It is Ash. He whips the horse. He gallops past. as he disappears into the thick fog. rides out of the wall of mist. He finds himself on a trail leading into a thick forest. rides slowly on through the darkening woods. He hears a sound and look to... branch against the bark of a tree. hears a woman's soft laughter. He glance to... and nothing more. powers through the woods toward Ash. kick his steed and bolts. sweeps over the forest floor, gaining velocity. frantically weaves his horse around storm felled trees which jut from the ground. rips through the trees, splintering them to toothpicks. It burrows underground, and resurfaces, always closing upon Ash. jerks upon the reins and his steed leaps a fallen tree. He gracefully leaps a second tree. But as he leaps over the third, he is ripped off the horse by a low branch. He falls hard to the mud as the horse gallops off. He groggily stands and stumbles onward. follows Ash down a wooded trail. running for... a grain storage house in the clearing ahead. comes upon the shed's door. Locked. He heaves his body against it but it won't give. log, that serves as the door's bolt, holds fast. emerges from over the ridge. unscrews his iron hand and holsters it. He slings the chainsaw from his shoulder and snaps it onto his stump bracket. Click. He threads the chainsaw starter cord through the that extends from his breastplate. He thrusts out his arm and the chainsaw to life! The blade bites into the log that bolts the door. draws closer. halfway through the log. Sawdust flies. Come on! Come on! The chainsaw dies. He jerks out his arm to restart it. Putt. Putt. Blasted piece of junk! draws closer. delivers a mighty kick to the door. The partially cut log gives way. Ash tumbles into the storage shed. He slams the door shut and slides the remainder of the log across the latch, re-bolting it. Hammers at the door of the Shed. terrified Ash braces his back against the door. Earth shaking in its intensity. The planks of the door shudder behind Ash. It cracks. presses himself against the door for all he's worth, praying that whatever it out there, won't get in. Splinters fly. The crack widens. behind Ash begins to buckle beneath the hammering blows. begins to And the halts. All is quiet. Ash hugs the door. Shaking in the silence. And that's when it hits. Ash and the door he braces are blasted away from the wall of the Shed as the Evil Force brings it's tremendous power to bare. as they are swept up at super speed in the grip of the Evil Force. Ash is seen rocketing through the long hallway of the Shed, spinning head over heels. Ash rips through other doors, taking them with him. Ash is now sandwiched between two doors as he flies through the air. The roof of the shed ripples, sending tiles and wood beams flying as the surges through the shed like a tidal wave. It blows out from the place in a flying stack along with the other doors. The flying doors slam against a tree and fall to the ground in a stack. with Ash out of sight, glides forward, into the woods. All is quiet. We hear the sound of a bolt moving. The doorknob turns slightly. The door swings upward and opens... revealing a somewhat flattened Ash who picks his groggy and bruised self up. He beholds... An empty place of stone and wood. Driven by the wind, the Mill's giant grinding wheel slowly turns with a squeak. enters the Mill. Anybody here?! The place is quiet. Ash slumps down against a wall to catch his breath. This place'll do for the night. Get the book in the morning. Shadows lengthen on the floor and stretch across the walls. peers through the window. a gigantic ball of fire as it sets behind the Mill. The wind kicks up. listens as the cabin like an old ship beneath the force of the gale. on the window quietly Ash shivers and rubs his arms for warmth. Damn this cold. looks about the Mill and spots an iron stove. pours out of Ash's chainsaw over some logs in the stove's belly. lights the fire with his Zippo lighter and huddles near the flame for warmth. 'least won't freeze to death. He turns to a tiny sound. behind him, through the window, a large gnarled hand sweeps past. spins, raises his shotgun and fires. The window is ripped away in a shower of glass. Only the night woods. The "gnarled hand" comes back, sweeping down in front of the broken window, but it's revealed to be just a tree branch swaying in the wind. reloads. He moves to the front door and peers out through a crack. through the crack in the door. pushes through the crack to the woods beyond. There is movement. The tiny figure of Ash steps from the Mill. He sweeps the barrel of the shotgun toward the sound of sticks breaking. It rears up on it's hind legs. It's front hoofs come down toward Ash. leaps aside just in time. snags the horse's reigns. Easy, boy. The horse calms. Ash ties it to a tree, patting it's head. shadow passes behind him. He turns toward the Mill. He sees am image of himself inside the Mill. Peering out. stares in disbelief, then the wind slams the front door of the Mill, halting Ash's view. Ash races for the Mill. races through the door and toward when...SMASH...Ash's reflection shatters. He's run into a mirror. Shivering, he picks himself up from the pile of broken glass. He moves to the fireplace and hunches before the flames, Each piece of mirror reflects an image of Ash. From the eight pieces of mirror spring... Two inch high versions of himself. They leap from the mirror fragments and land on the floor. is unaware of them as he kneels close to the fire. grab a discarded dinner fork. Like men on a battering ram, they race forward to jam it into Ash's buttocks. in agony and jerks forward, banging his head into the stove pipe. lift the barrel of the shotgun in Ash's direction. Another leaps upon the shotgun's trigger. barely dives away from the blast the would have taken his head off. with uncontrollable laughter. They jump away from the shotgun and scurry off across the floor. pulls the fork from his buttocks and heaves it. is running for his life, as fast as his tiny legs will carry him. a giant projectile as it with it as it past. skewers tiny Ash #1 to the wooden wall of the mill. stumbles over a broom handle that has been thrust out in front of him by other tiny His head slams into a stove pipe. He crumples. He lands with his cheek pressed against the hot stove. SSSSSSssss. He pries his face loose with a spatula. is pushed off a high shelf. and spills slippery grease about the floor. with an upside-down bucket on his head, slips and falls, back and forth on the grease. He stands and tries to dislodge the bucket. He trips over the broom handle, again thrust in his path. He falls backward, onto a crochet basket with knitting needles jutting from it. and jerks upward, slamming his bucket head into the stove pipe. Ash rips the bucket from his head then yanks the needles from his buttocks. He looks about for the little imps. crouching behind a log attempting to hide. has seen him. He "accidentally" elbows the log and Tiny Ash #2 into the stove's fire. Ooops. is burned alive. glances downward at the pitter patter sound of tiny feet. is dashing across the open expanse of floor. Ash's gigantic foot comes down to crush the little man. Tiny Ash #3 raises a rusty nail into the path of the descending foot. through Ash's shoe. jerks his leg upward in pain. Ash dances about the place hopping on one foot, He strays into the greasy area of the floor and stumbles over the broomstick again thrust in his path, swung there by Tiny #6, #7 and #8. He almost regains his balance when he strays into the oil patch, falls, and hits his head on the stone floor. awakens on the floor of the Mill, like Gulliver he is bound with tiny ropes. Directly above him, on the edge of a table... suspend Tiny Ash #6 by his legs. stand atop Ash's face. They push from either side of his nostrils, plugging his nose. Ash's mouth opens as he gasps for air. As he inhales... is released. He free falls for a moment, then the tiny body arcing to form a perfect swam dive, plunges down into Ash's opened throat. inhales the living beast whole. He chokes violently. He breaks his bonds an he hacks for breath. He puts his finger down his throat, trying to make himself vomit up the little man, to no avail. He looks about to crush some of the little but they are gone. He places his hand on his stomach and dizzily stumbles to a chair. He goes pale. Nasty little thing's inside me. He stands indignant but double over in sudden pain. Well let's see how you like a little hot water! He grabs the hot kettle from the stove and pours the scalding contents painfully down his throat. He sets down the kettle and waits for a moment. tiny emits from Ash's stomach emits a bark of He clutches as his chest. Then his arm. He rips back his shirt sleeve. We can see the outline of Tiny Ash #6's body squirming down Ash's arm, just beneath the skin. watches in horror as... squirms down his wrist and disappears into his iron hand. The Iron hand snaps open and closes uncontrollably. The possessed iron hand swings at him. connects with an uppercut that knocks Ash out of frame. lands next to an iron vice. He reaches for the But the hand has grabbed a mallet that him on the head. Ash is groggy as he is grabbed by the hair and yanked down into the opened vice. cranks the vice's handle. tightens around Ash's head. Trapped, he looks to... rummaging through a wooden toolbox. It comes upon a crude wooden punch. stabs rapidly at Ash's good hand. But Ash expertly dodges each stab with an opening of the fingers or a closing of the thumb is super fast motion. with is head still wedged in the vice. Why you dirty little...AHHHHHH!! has entered frame and clamps down upon Ash's nose. He emits a nasal and shakes the pliers loose. Soon as get out of this thing dip into Ash's mouth and clamps down upon a back molar. No! Not the teeth! jerks his rear from his head and holds up the tooth for his inspection. It sets the tooth down nearly in front of him. The Evil hand forms a fist and crushes the tooth to dust. It scurries from view. struggling in the grip of the vice. Where the hell are ya!? grabs a red hot fireplace poker from the fire. can't see ya!! raises a red hot fireplace poker and presses it against the right half of his body. No, no--not the poke-- SSSSsssssssss! jerks his head free from the vice with a He holds up his iron hand. It's back to normal. Again under his control. Okay then. But he halts abruptly as he feels a strange sensation: His shoulder itches. He scratches it. The Itch grows. It itches madly. He rips back his shirt. Upon his shoulder... It is the eyeball of Beneath it, a mouth and nose begin to take shape on the surface of Ash's back. and and races out of the mill. The follows him in docu-horror style as he flees into the dark woods. staggers about in a frenzy, stumbling over logs and through the brambles. He races up to the and cries out as this protrusion upon his shoulder becomes more pronounced. Dear God, it's growing bigger! It's taking the shape of a twin human head as it emerges from his shoulder. head that looks similar to his own, but is Evil incarnate. He is now a man with two heads! Staggers through the woods like a drunkard, the two identical heads trading insults, and sharply butting against one another. opens it's mouth and bites the nose of the Good Ash head. retaliates by gouging the eyes of the Bad Ash head. collapses against a tree. Under the light of the full moon we see a terrifying sight: sprout from Ash's body! rips out of his stomach. Another foot out from his back. Like a human spider he scurries about the forest floor, propelled by his four arms and four legs. Suddenly he stands and as the begins to pull away from the first. He literally splits into two. When it's over, there are two and... They square off beneath the moonlight. circle one another like wolves. What... are you? Are you me? You sound like a jerk! Why are you doing this?! Wanna know? 'cause the answers easy. It's cause I'm the bad Ash, and yer... Dances a funny jig around Ash. He Ash across the face as he sings: ...Little goody two- ...shoes, little goody two- ...shoes, little good-- the shotgun barrel is suddenly shoved into his frame, pointing at his nose. The blast blows Evil Ash off his feet. blown backwards into a double backflip. slams against a tree, upside-down. Then slides to the ground, quite dead. clutching the smoldering shotgun. Good...Bad...I'm the Ash with the gun. staring down at the body of his evil self. know better than to bury you whole. The giant blades of the Mill are illuminated with bright flashes of lightning. The wind kicks up leaves as Ash throws the body of his Evil Twin onto a workbench at the base of the windmill. The giant blades of the mill arc down into frame with a Ash's hand light a torch. from the base of the windmill. across the body of Evil Ash to secure it. is switched on. It spews a plume of blue exhaust. falters for a moment as he stares down at the form of his Evil twin. He grits his teeth... and lowers the saw to the grisly task. float past the moon. We hear the distant of the chainsaw. with shovel in hand, drags a bloody burlap bag from the Mill. Grunting, he pulls the remains of his Evil twin to the base of an old Oak Tree in the graveyard. Ash mumbles nervously to the bloodies burlap bag at his feet as he digs a grave. Now you see what's what. Man's body is his own personal property. Don't anybody try to take that away from him. finishes digging and lifts the bloody burlap sack. As he heaves the bag into the grave, the Evil Ash head spills out. It's eyes pop open! It peers up at Ash from the grave. It croaks; You'll never get that Book. will come back for you. Hey, what's that you got on your face? Huh? It's eyes dart, looking for something on it's face when a shovelful of dirt is heaped atop it. as a shovelful of dirt is heaped atop the buries it deep. He raises a crude burial marker high above his head; (muttering under his breath) Rest in pieces. backlit by the moon, brings the burial maker swiftly into the grave. flash of lightning reveals... in the distance. burial place of evil. The old mill wheel in the gale. This must be it. The cemetery. moves toward the cemetery. In the center, lies a massive slab of black stone. draws closer, his teeth chattering as the wind blasts at him. He glances down to... sitting atop the ground, leering up at with empty eye sockets. The wind whistles through the empty skull. The jaw bone drops open with a squeak. His hair is whipped up by the wind. He looks to... backlit by the rising moon, creates eerie beams of light and shadow. arrives at the foot of the massive stone. Atop it sits... steps close. Wait. Three books? Nobody said anything about that. Ha! That Wiseman was so busy fillin' me fulla his secret words and phrases and, and, his... bullshit, he forgot to mention anything about that. Like do take all of 'em of one or 'em, or what? Well... He reaches for the first book and opens it. To reveal a black hole. from the dark abyss of the Book. It begins to suck things into it. dead leaves and mist are sucked into the book. Wind hits Ash's face as he feels the suction of the book growing stronger. is stretched as it's pulled down into the book. Ash's arms stretch down into the book's black page. stretched and screaming, is also pulled on by the book. taffy stretched version of Ash struggles against the pull of the black hole. He pulls free and snaps the book shut. His face vibrates like jello until it finally snaps back to normal. Woah. Wrong book. He turns to study... tries to decide between them. At first he's sure which one it is. Then, chiding himself for being so easily duped, chooses the other. moves ever so slightly as he reaches for it. Huh. Ash reaches for it again and the book bites him! Rodent teeth have appeared on the surface of the Book. The Book flaps it's pages and becomes airborne, flying right at like a bat! Swooping erratically around Ash's head. shrieking, chases Ash around, pecking at his neck. Dear God, help me... ahhh!!! The Batbook is pecking at his eyes! pulls it from his face and throws it. It lands back on it's pedestal. faces the remaining book. He slowly reaches for it as the wind kicks up. Ash gently lifts it and turns it over. It's cover is bound in the dried skin of a man's face! Two empty eye sockets stare out from it. This is the Book of the Dead... bristles in fear. Okay. The words. Say the words. uh... Uh... Necta... uh... Nectar... Necktie... uh... He hesitates, then calls out boldly. NECTtphhhhhhhhhh... He deliberately muffles the last word that he can't remember. The wind stops. It seems to have worked. He looks about with growing confidence. Okay then. But he loses his smile as... a is heard on the soundtrack. tiny figure among the gravestones which tremble and one by one are thrust from the earth. Hey, wait a minute. Everything's cool! said the words! did! violent storm in the distance. Lightning flashes. blows open revealing Wiseman John. He looks at the gathering storm with foreboding. Something is amiss. in hear. Sheila steps into frame and stare fearfully out at the storm. runs for his horse, clutching the Necronomicon. rips up from a grave and grabs his leg! falls. is knocked from Ash's hand. reaches for it when a skeleton hand rips from the ground and clutches his face. digs into Ash's mouth. It jerks his face sideways to show him... that rip from the ground! toss Ash to... grab Ash's head and bang it on a rock. Two of the six arms try to shake and slap some sense into him. rotted fist is waved at him. Another rotted arm backhands him. The arms thrust his face toward the skeleton hands. curl boney fingers, clenching them into fists. No.. no more... The skeletal fists pepper Ash's face with punches. Leave me alone! Leave me aHUUU! last out and snag Ash's tongue between their boney pincers, shutting Ash up. With his tongue held, he tries to speak again, but the other skeletal hand slaps him, shutting him up. Both hands work double-time at slapping him. His face has become a punching bag for the skeletal hands. They pull his ears and gouge his eyes. open his mouth wide with in a The boney fist is thrust into Ash's screaming mouth up to the skeleton's boney elbow. They bulge as he swallow the arm. rips through the ground, punching Ash in the stomach. jerks backward, vomiting out the skeletal arm. He tumbles to the ground. reach for him, but he is too fast. He stamps on one of the skeletal arms, pinning it to the ground. (in a snarl) Keep you damn filthy bones outta my mouth. He breaks the boney arm in two and runs away from the sea of limbs. bone arm rips from the grave and reaches for the Book of the Dead but Ash scoops it up first. He leaps over another set of groping arms that rip from the ground! atop the horse. He glances back in fear to see... The burial site of Evil Ash. bolt of lightning strikes the grave marker. is thrust from the ground. hand breaks the surface of the earth. fly up from the grave and assemble themselves into a lopsided, decayed version of stares in horror at his evil self. All around, skeletons rip from the earth and shriek as they come back to life! kicks the horse and rides off. galloping back the way he came. In the distance we see the cemetery. More bodies arise from the ground. Now far from the danger but still he rides hard. I'm through bein' their garbage boy. did my part of the bargain. He pats the saddlebag, where the book is and grins. Now they owe me. Like in the deal. want back. He whips his horse... ...and rides off into the darkness. tiny figure, rides toward the castle. and two guards stand atop a tower and shout down to the gatekeeper. Open the gates. The Promised one has returned! swings down. rides across the lowered bridge and into the torchlight of the castle. hold Ash's horse as he dismounts. There are excited shouts from the villagers The stranger has returned! He's brought the book! is led to the The Necronomicon. Quickly. pours a bucket of water over his head and begins drinking. Did you bring the Necronomicon! slurps down more of the water, averting his eyes from the Wiseman. Yes. It's just that... Just what?! Nothing. Here Ash produces the Necronomicon. Now send be back. Like in the deal. takes the book and suddenly goes pale. No...I sensed something had gone awry. The book's power. It's gone. murmurs at this bad news. suddenly looks very guilty. Wiseman John turns to him. When you removed the Necronomicon from it's cradle, did you speak the words? Yeah. basically. Did you speak the exact words?! Well, maybe not every single syllable, no. But basically said them. Yes. bows his head, stung by this information. Dung eating fool! Thou hast doomed us. When thou misspoke the words the Army of the Dead was awoke. Hey. We had a deal. You told me, you could clean this thing up, once got you the book. You said there was a passage in there that could get rid of this thing and send me back. The passage is useless to us as long as these evil dead walk. They have a terrible desire for this book. And they shall come here to get it. Once in their possession, the Evil shall rule the Earth for one thousand years...Because of you...we are doomed. You wanted the damn book. You got yer book. did my part of the deal. We did strike a bargain. will return you to your own time as promised. Yeah. Well good. That was the deal. So uh...when do you think we can... looks about at the condemned faces. past the doomed faces in the crowd. mean...when can you send me... sees Sheila, but looks away, consumed with the guilt that he's doomed her. The Wisemen were fools to believe that you were the Promised one. That one such as you could have saved us!. is solemn. and the others turn away in contempt. moves closer. still believe that thou wilt help us. No.. They're right. screwed up. didn't come through for you, and... I'm sorry for it. still have faith in thee. In my heart know thou wilt still succeed. Sheila... It's over for me. don't belong here and I'm going home. didn't have what it took. It's over. He bows his head and moves off. high pitched is heard! look to the sky. possessed women with bat-like wings, swoop down. scream as they flee from the winged beasts. Like a delta winged it banks towards Sheila. No! races to intercept. He plants himself between Sheila and the beast. As it swoops at Ash. opens his steel hand, then clamps it closed again on the handle of his sword. The immense shadow of the broad winged Deadite falls over Ash. swings his sword upward. severs the tip of the Beast's rotted wing. shrieks in pain as it soars over Ash. No longer aerodynamically sound, it crashes to the ground. fire their arrows into the beast, pegging it to a tree. The bone white eyes of the creature darken. spin to the sound of a woman's in the clutches of #2. M'Lord Ash! Help me! The beast flies off with the fair maiden, soaring over the castle wall and into the distance. shakes his fist at the receding beast. Damn you! come riding in through the castle doors. An army of the dead! They have gathered in the wilderness and come this way. How far from here? But two days ride. Then these winged ones are only the first of them. Perhaps we should go from this place while we can. We could be safe in the mountains. Yes! To the mountains! We must flee! They'll take our souls! All eyes look to... who stands on a high castle wall, clutching his smoldering shotgun. Go ahead and run. Run home and cry to mama. I'm through runnin'. stay we stay and fight. takes a challenging step forward. How will we stop an army of the dead at out castle walls? How will you fight that?! With more words? Most of out people have already fled. We are but forty men. We'll get Henry the Red and his men to fight with us. We shall not stand in battle, alongside the likes of him. Our honor will not allow it. Then you'll die. Honor and all. Now who's with me? is silent as they consider Ash's words. Then from the rear, the Village Blacksmith steps forward. I'll stand by you. steps forward. Then another. You may count on my steel. And mine! steps forward vowing their allegiance to the cause. reluctantly joins them. directs teams of skeletons to dig at the graves. Dig! Dig faster! want every black hearted, worm infested, son of a bitch that ever died in battle! We'll storm their castle and take the book! Then my lads, eternal life shall by ours! hoist up a stone casket from the ground and with rusted swords pry it open, releasing another skeleton who stands to join their ranks. push a bruised Sheila to her knees before Evil Ash. looking up to Evil Ash in fear. His boney finger comes down into frame and strokes her lovely cheek. She pulls away in revulsion. looks down at her with lust. Why ain't you a sweet little thing? His boney digit caresses her lips. Don't touch me! You foul thing! Your gonna learn to live me missy. The Promised one will come for you. yanks her to her feet. Darlin' I'm gonna save him the trouble. He clutches her squirming body in a boney embrace. Silhouetted by the large full moon, Evil Ash forces his kiss upon Sheila. Around them, the skeletons sharpen their swords on tombstones. Ash rides toward the castle of Henry the Red that can be seen in the distance. is suddenly intercepted by They surround him. He wears the insignia of Arthur! Slay him! The draw their swords when... rides up between his warriors and Ash. Stay your arms! Henry turns to Ash. T'is the stranger who spared me from the pit. What brings you? The Army of the Dead. What of them? They're headed towards Arthur's castle. We need your help. Fight with us. So you are a vassal of Arthur now? You have taken up sides with him against me. The only side I'm takin' is the one that's gonna stop those things. Henry laughs. Why should endanger my people to save my enemy? Because after they finish with Arthur they'll come after you. Together, we've got a chance. Besides, you owe me. ride side by side on skeletal steeds. Sheila lifts her black veil, revealing bone white eyes, set into a face now the texture of cracked leather. She looks with admiration to... He is general of the army of Deadites. He thrusts a rusted sword into the air and shouts in a gritty voice: Who rules?! raise their swords into the air with a shout. stand atop the castle wall and sound their trumpets! to reveal... being pulled by a team of men and horses, inside the castle walls. Ash is behind the steering wheel. look under the hood of the Delta 88, parked in the Blacksmith's shop. is shattered. frowns. pour molten iron into a large sand mold. is brushed away revealing gear wheels. beat upon red hot iron, fashioning helicopter like rotor blades. is lowered into the Delta's engine compartment. walks along, inspecting a line of forty medieval warriors who stand at attention. He halts before a warrior and stares hard at him. The Warrior glances towards Ash. You eyeballin' me boy? No, M'Lord. can't hear you! You squeekin' like a mouse! Are you a mouse boy?! Where you from, mouse?! hail from the village of Perth. Only two things come from Perth: steers and queers. Which are you? takes charcoal from a dead fire and chips of dried cow dung. He mixes them with sulfur. is bound up in a small satchel and affixed to an arrow. lights the fuse with a torch. draws back and releases the arrow. imbeds in a wooden post and Large pieces of wood are sent flying. watch in awe. is rung madly. The signal for battle stations. rides in through the castle gates screaming: They're coming! The Deadites approach! look of shock and fear on all the faces. comes into frame. with him as he scales the ladder to the lookout tower. He peers out to the darkening horizon. hears them before he sees them: The sound of clicking bones. Painful moans of tortured souls, the clanging of approaching armor. Fifty distant silhouettes of the Evil Dead appear on the horizon. Then fifty more. play rotted bagpipes as they march toward the castle. haunted battle melody. Behind them... plays the drums upon a set of hollow skulls. takes a leg bone upon a third skeleton's ribs. bone xylophone. bone-o-phone. blow into arm bones forming woodwind section. with these helmeted skeletons as they march. They are clad in rusting suits of armor, wielding swords and spears. Nasty grins on their faces. One hobbles past on his wooden leg. ride their steeds to a halt atop a hill. ride alongside Evil Ash and salute him sharply. M'Lord! We are positioned on both fronts! Where are they keeping my book? Most likely...there, in the castle's keep. It would be the safest place. It is behind two walls that must be taken first. Excellent. Proceed. With a sweep of his arm, he waves the Army of rot. Forward! now pound the attack beat on their drums. advance toward the castle. Some crouch behind wooden barricades which they roll before them. Arrows! Load! pull back arrows on their bow strings. Each arrow has a small charge of black powder attached to it. Torch boy! runs behind the archers, lighting the fuses on each of the powder charges. As the last arrow is lit.... looks to the approaching army. rolls their wooden barricades closer. turns to Ash for the signal. holds up a finger. He waits. strain, their bows taut with the explosive arrows. The sound of the is loud. about to disappear into the powder charges. waits one more beat. The turns to Arthur. Fire! Fire! fire a volley of smoking arrows. rain down from the castle wall. are hit with the explosive arrows. They explode. are pierced by the explosive arrows. They burst apart in flames. roll on the ground unable to extinguish themselves. continues to advance only to collapse into a smoldering heap. Ash in sensurround. races up to Ash. M'Lord! second division approaching from the South. turns to the South. approach. are wheeled into position. Powder! hoist large sacks of black powder onto spoons of the catapults. Their fuses are lit. gestures. Swords slice through lines which send giant sacks of black powder catapulting. Three flaming projectiles whine as they hurl over the castle walls. toward the skeletons as they look upward in horror. The first blast takes out a skeleton horse and rider. Bones fly. are obliterated. turns to the Skeleton Captain #1 who rides alongside him. Permission to regroup, m'Lord. You needn't bother. slices off the head of Skeleton Captain #1. He turns to the next to him. You are now my captain. will now allow anything to stop me from possessing the Necronomicon. Get me into that castle. gulps and races forward into the ranks shouting: use trees as battering rams and batter the large wooden doors of the castle. begin to buckle beneath the hammering blows. scream! wedge logs to buttress the buckling castle doors. Arrows! fire a volley of arrows. As they reload. Behind them... fire their arrows. pierce five Warriors atop the castle wall. They fall. fall to the courtyard. Villagers lift them away on stretchers. shouts to Ash: Where is Henry?! He'll be here. think he will not. But know this. No matter how this battle fares, was wrong to think you a coward. The battering rams rips through the doors and the army of darkness pours into the courtyard. crawls in with a knife in its teeth. They're coming in. What now?! looks terrified. He turns and runs from the castle entrance, dropping his sword, and hides in the blacksmith's shop, pulling the door closed behind him. shocked at Ash's cowardly desertion, turns to his men and shouts: Fall back! Man the Parapet! Protect the book or God save us all! retreat across the courtyard to rope ladders that scale the parapet. The rope ladders are hastily pulled up, leaving no access. are stranded in the courtyard. They fight for their lives but are quickly overcome. takes out the last of the stranded warriors with her sword. smiles at Sheila. He turns his attention to the guarded tower just beyond the parapet. The book shall be mine! He raises his rusty sword. storm the parapet with three crudely built wooden ladders as large rocks rain down upon them from above. push away ladder #1. swing away from the wall and crash to the ground. leap onto the parapet and battle the men with swords. knocks the deadite off the ledge and shouts back toward Arthur. We can't hold this wall much longer! pierces his armor and he falls to his death. looks up as he hears... Through the dust and smoke something appears...An iron beast...belching steam...It's angry iron blades whirling. Behold... The stripped chaise of the Delta 88 Oldsmobile. steam engine is mounted to it's center to power the craft. At the front and rear are spinning, helicopter like rotor blades. shovels coal into the Deathcoaster's furnace. is at the helm. He pulls a cord. to announce its birth. is cut to ribbons by swirling blades. cheer! at the base of the ladders look up in horror to see... slicing through two Deadites at once. The cow-catcher in front pushes aside the halved Evil Dead. operates a crude instrument panel with only two levers to steer the craft. It's a bumpy ride. Thwop! Thwop! Two more skeletons bite the dust. leathery hands pluck a Gold Tooth from the craft. disappears beneath the squirming corpses. moment later he re- emerges as a skeleton himself, except for the single gold tooth that shines against the white of the bone. He stands and joins the Deadites. leaps onto the moving Deathcoaster to face Ash. Thou didst find me beautiful once. Honey...You got real ugly. attacks with a spins out his double barreled shot gun and... ...blows her off the craft. She does a back flip into the other Deadites. pulls hard on the steering stick and it tears loose from the craft. careens out of control. tumbles from the helm and hits the ground. flips, crushes a group of Deadites against a wall, and explodes. picks himself up from the dust. He looks upward to... attempts to push the ladder away. sword comes up into frame, stabbing Arthur. He is yanked to his death with a shriek! Evil Ash, with his bloody sword, leaps up from the ladder and onto the parapet. He's headed for the Book of the Dead. races to a set of ropes and pulley that ascend the parapet. Two deadites come at him. He grabs the rope with his steel hand and slices one end of it with his sword. plummet down atop the two deadites, crushing them. Simultaneously, Ash is tanked upward by the rope, to the parapet. looks to... approaching the Necronomicon. kicks aside a hay bale and removes a mini-crossbow with four flame tipped arrows, loaded and ready. He fires. imbeds in Evil Ash's leg and ignites his body. Another flaming dart hits his shoulder blade. The flames consume his body. He burns and watches in horror as... revealing a bone white skeleton with mismatched eyes. It races at Ash with a bring their swords together with such great force that sparks fly. Ash is forced back against the stone pedestal that holds the Necronomicon. With a deft stroke, Ash's sword is flung from his hand. imbeds in a wooden beam. grabs the Necronomicon, then swings his sword at Ash. grabs a burning iron torch from its mount. Man and Skeleton battle with flaming torch and sword. The torch is knocked from Ash's hand. It falls over the edge of the wall and lands in the courtyard below. It ignites a fuse. The burning fuse leads to a sack of black powder. The sack sits upon the spoon of a catapult. swings his sword. Ash leaps over the blade. The Skeleton swings downward, and Ash side steps it. rabbit punches Ash's fist bursts out all it's rotted teeth. delivers a right hook, spinning the skeleton's head around in a circle. gives Ash a backwards roundhouse kick to the face. Ash tumbles over the edge. falls to the courtyard below, alongside the catapult. He glances at the burning fuse. leaps from the parapet and lands atop the catapult. The Skeleton looks down at Ash with a nasty grin of bone. Behold... He gestures to the Evil Dead that overrun the parapet and now battle the last twenty of Arthur's warriors for control of the Keep. You're finished. He extends the Necronomicon to taunt Ash. possess the Necronomicon. I've crushed your pathetic army. Now I'll have my vengeance! He raises his sword for the death blow... Duke Henry's men! They've come! turn... jubilant rises from the castle as... thunder down the hill, across the drawbridge and into the castle courtyard to attack the Deadites! turns back to Ash and raises his sword for the kill. has grabbed a sword from a fallen warrior. With a single motion he slices the hand that holds the Necronomicon from Skeleton Ash. snags the book with one hand and on the backswing, slices through the rope, springing the catapult. are flung over the castle wall. rockets up past camera, waving its boney arms. The burning satchel follows. The skeleton is blown to bits in mid air. goes up within the castle courtyard as Henry's Warriors crush the last of the Deadites. streak over the horizon. Ash enters frame. He holds the Necronomicon as he looks wearily out over the battlefield. Smoking skeletons lay scattered. Henry and Arthur's Warriors work together. They toss the deadite bones and armor into a bonfire. engulfed by flames, crack in the heat. are dipped into the flame of a bonfire. They ignite. Form a row of archers. They fire their flaming arrows toward the sea. strike a wooden ship that holds the body of Arthur. We said goodbye to Arthur. Sure we had our problems. But in the end, he was all right. watch the funeral pyre sail off. It's flickering flames play upon their faces. Peace was made between the two peoples. And a new nation was formed. They offered my a chance to stay among them and teach them. chance to lead them. To be King. But Sheila was gone. Besides, had places to go. mix a vat of liquid over a fire as they recite a passage from the Necronomicon. flask is dipped into the liquid. hands the flask of liquid to Ash. The Book tells us that each drop allows a man to sleep a century. Swallow six drops, and thou shalt awaken in thine own time. Yeah. Right... Ash takes the flask and studies it. ...but what other choice did have? rides off. had to find a place to crash. For a very long time. with the aid of his horse, drags the Deathcoaster inside the cave. He sets the horse free. It gallops off. Places a black powder charge at the mouth of the cave. He ignites the fuse and climbs into the car. locked the door. The powder charge blows. The cave's entrance is sealed shut with an avalanche of rock. The car headlights come on, piercing the blackness. uncorks the flask filled with the Wiseman's brew. closed my eyes. He lets six drops fall into his mouth. One for each century he must sleep. took a drink. Ash is unaware that an extra drop has fallen into his mouth! 7th drop! Ash swallows the liquid. didn't know if it was day or night. started... to get drowsy... And slept... falls into a deep slumber. fade. now in a different position. Time has passed. He needs a shave. ...And dreamed. wind faster and faster, then halt and rust in time lapse photography. The leather band rots away and the watch falls from Ash's wrist. rises then sets. follows. forms along the surface of the aging rock wall. Dreams last lasted centuries. sprouts buds, they swell forming leaves which change to the brilliant colors of fall then drop. covers Ash. on the ceiling of the cave melt. The water drops down onto Ash's face. He stirs. awakens in a heap of rusted scrap, which was once the Deathcoaster. His clothes and armor having deteriorated, he is buck ass naked as he staggers to the mouth of the cave. He digs at the rocks that block the cave's entrance. Sunlight streams into the hole he has created. climbs from the cave and steps into the sunlight. And when awoke... beholds... after the next Nuclear war: a dead land. lays sprawled on its side. The time of mankind's death frozen on the cracked face of the clock. abruptly ends, a third of the way across a river it once spanned. Upon it, rest heaps of futuristic, yet rusted taxicabs piled eight deep in some places. from a stunned Ash, amidst the atomized pieces of iron and bone. found that had slept too long. is so small a dot now, and so far away, that we almost can't hear his terrified Army of Darkness : Sam Raimi Ivan Raimi : Adventure Fantasy Act