Written by Steve Tesich June 9, 1978 narrow dirt road totally surrounded by thick vegetation. Here and there we see a huge block of stone blocking the road. The sun is shining but it has a hard time making it through the foliage. In the distance we see four guys walking the There is a swagger to their walk. MII� is singing. The others are humming along. The melody of the song of "0 Bury Me Not On the Lone Prairie" but it's a loose version. By this time the four are in front of the Mike is handsome and well built. is tall and skinny. is very short. hanging back a little, is carrying a large trophy. Bravo, Mike! Bravo! Bellisimot Did you really make all that up? They pass. The presence of the quarry is felt much stronger now. More and more blocks of cut stone appear. The guys are dwarfed by them. They have to climb over some. sent away for this stuff from Wyoming. It'll tell you everything. Since you don't believe me maybe you'll believe it when you see it. And we'd work on the same ranch and sleep in the bunkhouse together, eh? Cont. 1 Cont. That's the whole point. always miss the whole point. It'd be nice to have a paying Job again, that's for sure. Niente laborare. Niente mangare. What's that mean? You don't work. You don't eat. That's a terrible thing to say. The quarries are felt even more now. Walls of stone rise up around the guys. Are you really going to shave your legs? Certo. All the Italians do it. That's some country. The women don't shave theirs. (pauses as if hand on heart) It was somewhere along here that lost all interest in life. Ah, right over there. I.saw Dolores Reineke and fat Marvin. Why? Why Dolores? They're married now. Coat. 1 Cont.1 You see what saved you from, Cyril. Had not told you about the two of them you never would have followed them out here. Thank you, Mike. You made me lose all interest in life and I'm grateful. My brother says he saw you and Nancy. Moocher. When? Last Friday? Wasn't me. I'm not seeing her anymore. They are now standing above a huge pool of water with sheer cliffs on three sides. Abandoned derricks loom in the distance. Dave is now humming softly a Neapolitan song. They begin the descent. kind of miss school. You know. This will be the first time nobody's going to ask us to write a theme about how we spent our summer. Remember the Tomb of the Unknown Substitute Teacher. She believed us too. Sex spelled backwards x-es. When you're sixteen they call it sweet sixteen. When you're eighteen you get to drink, see dirty movies and vote. But what the hell do you do when you're nineteen. Cont. 1 Cont.2 You leave home. My dad says Jesus never went further than fifty miles from his home. Mike is skipping down the rocks toward the water, taking clothes off as he does. The rest follow. And look what happened to him. Mike jumps into the water. Moocher and Cyril follow. Dave looks on. The guys are swimming. Dave is holding his trophy casually, enjoying the beautiful day. He pulls out a little Italian Phrase Book. Finds what he wants. Oggi fa bello,-non e vero? Sure thing, partner. C'mon in. read where this Italian coach said you should never swim after a race. Who's swimming? I'm taking a leak. Moocher and Mike splash water at him and swim away. All four guys are sunbathing looking at the water. Deep down, at the bottom of the quarry hole we see an old icebox. Mike is staring at it. The mood is one of total relaxation. Aren't you glad we got fired from The and Right now we'd be working. We didn't get fired. You got- fired. We quit. One for all and all for one. There aren't many places, you know, that'll hire all four of You know what I'd like to be? Smart. cartoon of some kind. Man, that'd be great. Like when they get hit on their head with a frying pan and their head looks like a frying pan-with a handle and everything. And then they go b-r-r-r. (shakes his head) And their head comes back to normal. That'd be great.. How come you're so stupid, Cyril. don't know. think have a dumb heredity. What's your excuse, Mike? Mike hits him hard on the arm. Cyril winces. Mike stands up. He makes sure they're all watching and dives in. The guys talk as they follow his progress. You hear from your folks, Moocher? 567 Cont. Coat. Yeah, my Dad called. He says there's a lot more jobs in'Chicago. He hasn't got anything yet. Mike has reached the icebox. He opens the door. Goes in. Shuts the door. He wanted to know if the house was sold. They could use the money. You can come and live with me when it's sold. In Italy everybody lives together. All three of them are getting concerned about Mike. Ever since you won that Italian bike you've been acting weird. You really think you are Italian. .wouldn't mind thinking was s omebody myself. All three of them stand up. Maybe the door is stuck. God dammit! Moocher dives in. Dave and Cyril follow. Moocher swims down to the icebox, forces the door open. They surface. As soon as they hit the surface we hear: �o.s.} Yoo--hoo . They see Mike standing on top of the rock above them. It's got no back on it! He laughs triumphantly. He's ready to dive in again when he pauses and looks. High above where he stands on the other side of the quarry hole, we see several figures. The guys are swimming toward the rocks and looking at the figures too. 5667 Cont. Cont.l His face has hardened as he looks at the figures. What the hell are they doing here? Dave, Moocher and Cyril are standing on the rocks below Mike. Mike is still on top of the rock. High above him are the College Kids. Three guys and three girls. One of the guys is standing on the ledge above the water. Our guys are looking at the College Kid on the ledge. He seems intent on diving into the water. It's a distance of at least eighty feet. He pushes off and dives in executing a beautiful somersault into a swan dive. They are stunned. He's obviously envious.. He looks from the diver toward the guys and seems to feel his position undermined. I've never seen anyone dive off from there. They've got indoor pools and outdoor pools on the campus but they got to come here. (Joins the guys) It's my goddamn quarry. Cyril assumes a very dramatic posture. Sings to the theme from Exodus. This hole! This quarry hole is mine! Hey, screw you, Cyril. Let's get out of here. They are retracing their steps out of the quarry. Mike is leading. -Moocher is behind him. Dave is at the end. He's carrying a huge trophy casually. �o.s.) If they re going to come here then we'll go on•.the campus. racing bicycle is on top of the car. The guys are in the car and the car is moving fast through the dirt road leading out of the quarries. Mike is speeding through the town. huge billboard with the Marlboro Man whizzes past us.. - Mike looks angry. He's got an unlit cigarette in his mouth. car lot is on the right. Isn't your dad working today? (o.s.) No, the doctor told him to take it easy. He's taking Sunday's off. City Hall is on the left. That's where you go to get a marriage license, Mooch. (o.s.) Yeah, so what? Cyril laughs and then howls as he's hit. Huge modern structures are looming in the distance in stark contrast to the town we just passed through. Mike's car-is speeding toward them. Mike's car turns into a street called Fraternity Row.- Most of the fraternities and sororities-are located along this stretch. Neat lawns line the area. The houses are enormous: an architectural mixture of old manor house and modern motel. The college kids are outside on the lawns. Some are reading. Girls in bikinis sunbathing. Guys washing their cars. Some other guys passing the football around. Transistor radios playing. Mike drives slowly. All the guys are looking out of the windows as if they were in a museum. Mike looks at the expensive cars along the way. Cyril looks at the Girls in bikinis. Moocher looks at the huge well-built guys. Dave just looks. Going to college must do'something 'to girls' tits. Just look at them. Campussies and sororititties. (sticks head out; shouts to a couple of Girls) - Hi, there. What's your major? The Girls look up and kind of sneer. They sure look like they've got it made. That's because they're rich. Italians are all poor but they're happy. Maybe in Italy. Cont. 7 Cont. wonder what it's like to kiss a coed. wonder about it a lot. Ahead of Mike's car we see two Guys and two Girls playing Frisbee. They are standing on the lawns and throwing the Frisbee to each other across the street. Mike's car is moving slowly forward when an ill-thrown Frisbee lands on the street. Mike sees it and speeds up. Girl is running to get it but Mike gets there first and runs over it. Dave gets a quick look at the Girl as she stops"suddenly to keep from getting hit. The two college Guys run out and give' Mike the finger. He sees them in the rearview mirror. Hey, those bastards are giving us the finger. He slams on the brakes. Hey, c'mon, Mike. We're on their turf. Dave is looking back at the Girl. The two Guys are challenging Mike, motioning to him to come back. The two Girls are trying to talk them out of it. Mike-is gunning the car. They think they own the place. They do. Besides, you've humiliated them enough. In ancient Japan when you ran over a samurai's Frisbee he had to commit suicide. Just as he laughs Mike shifts the car in reverse. The two Guys and Girls are standing in the middle of the road. The Guys are coming forward thinking Mike's going to stop, but Mike has no intention of stopping. The Girls and the Guys split as Mike's car roars between them. Once again Dave catches a fleeting glimpse of the Girl. Having scattered them, Mike makes a U-turn and drives away in the direction he came from. Cont. 7 Cont.1 The girl Dave saw, is looking after the car holding a cracked Frisbee in her hand. The tall well-built guy next to her, her boyfriend, looks real upset. He is wearing a Little 500 T-shirt. Dumbass cutters. Goddamn redneck retards. riding. Neapolitan melody plays as Dave rides holding his trophy:. a romantic song of the south and not southern Indiana. The small houses could be Italian houses to Dave. The people sitting on porches and steps could be Italians. Dave waves like a returning hero. Buon giornol Buon giornol Hey, bambino. The people and the kids look at him like he's an oddball, but Dave does not notice. woman is shaking a rug ahead of him, and she looks so Italian that he can't help but smile. big blonde is coming out of the house dressed in a waitress outfit. She sees Dave. Dave...is Moocher home? But Dave just rides past her in a daydream. They're older The Man is drinking a beer. Tsk. Tsk. He was as normal as pumpkin pie and'now look x at him. The Man lets out a long beer belch. His poor parents. l f - 10 is sitting at a kitchen table. is boiling water. Mr. Blase does not look happy. He's got a flyswatter in his hand. He sees a fly. Whack. He hits it. He misses. It's that cologne he wears. Neapolitan Sunset, it's called. Well, it smells like fruit punch to me and it attracts flies. Mrs. Blase comes over and pours some hot water into his cup. She takes a package of Sanka from her apron pocket and puts it in the saucer. There. Mrs. Blase looks at the table. This is itl You have to watch your diet. Diet, if anybody found out was on the diet they'd laugh me out of town. diet. You know what the doctor said. At your age... At my agel What the hell do you mean at my age. He says you have a bad heart. Yeah, but it's got nothing to do with my age. It's our son that's ruining my heart, Evelyn. What's he going to do? He wanted a year with those bums so gave him a year. 10 Cont. It hasn't been a year yet. But, Evelyn. Look whatts happened to him. He's turned into a ity; It was funny at first but it's not funny anymore. Ciao, Papa. Ciao, Mama. Arrivaderchit That's ity talk. It's just hero worship. He says the Italians are the best bike racers in'the world and he... This is America, Evelyn. Only paper boys ride bikes and they earn money doing it. Re did win his bicycle and he was quite sickly 'til he started racing around and in three years ne's... So now his body's fine but his mind is gone. He used to be a smart kid. thought he was going to goy to college. thought you didn't want him to go to college. Why should he go to college? didn't go to college. When was nineteen was working in the quarries ten hours a day. But most of the quarries have shut down. Let him find another job. But there aren't any jobs. 567 Cont. 10 Cont.1 Let him look at least. Let him come home tired from looking. He's never tired. He's young. When was young was tired. had my own place at seventeen. He says Italian families stay together, know. It's just that come from a big family myself. . .and it really was kind of nice... (smiles, half He thinks we should have another kid. What?t Dave enters carrying his trophy. Ah, buon giorno, Papa. I'm your goddamned father, not papa. Buon giorno, Mama. She's your goddamn mother. Whatcha do -- win again? Dave opens the fridge and takes out a hunk of cheese and a hunk of salami and starts eating. Mr. Blase looks at him like a wolf and then he looks at half a grapefruit in front of him. He finds it unbearable to watch him chew. Cont. 10 Cont.2 Yes, the victory ...she was easy. But the promoter...'fondatore' ...He says the Italian team...it will come maybe soon...and will race with the best...ITALIANO. Like the nightingale they sing, like the eagles they fly. Mr. Blase can't bear to watch him eat. He's starved. Speaking of flies...there's a helluva lot of flies following you into the house. Fly in Italian is 'mosca.' Well in English it's a pest. And speaking of pests... Mrs. Blase senses an argument. It's a nice trophy isn't it, dear? Yeah, so what. I've lived fifty years without ever getting a trophy. You never got trophy, Papa? No, never, and what's more... Dave interrupts. Here, Papa. give you. You are 'Numero Uno.' King Papa. Dave hands him the trophy. Mr. Blase is stunned. He'takes it. Before he can even think to give it back Dave kisses him on both cheeks. Cont. Don't do thatl How many times... Now I'have to go and take a shower. (starts to leave Such a big house and so few people. wish had plenty of fratelly and sorelly to greet me when come home and to wave when go. Cont. 10 Cont.3 Dave leaves. Mrs. Blase sighs. She too would like a big family. Mr. Blase is holding the trophy and looking at it. Neapolitan music is heard coming from Dave's room. Mr. Blase has had it. There'-s that ity music again. I'm going to have it out with him now. He goes to Dave's room carrying the trophy with him. Mrs. Blase follows him a few steps and stops. She waits... listening. She is apprehensive. She wants to follow and help Dave out but she stays behind wringing her hands. Mr. Blase reappears looking quite stunned. He's holding the trophy in one hand along his side. What's the matter? Well, so what? His legs, Evelyn. He's shaving his legs. saw him. His legs. Huamoing along with the record player Dave is shaving away at his overly-lathered legs. record is turning. On top of the dust cover we see an album cover: The his room. There are bicycle trophies everywhere. Posters of Italian racers. Posters of Italian movies. Magazine covers and newspaper clippings from Italian racing magazines. Bicycle parts: Spare wheels...cranks...pedals. Several bicycle jerseys hanging on the doorknob.. sings during.this tour of Dave's room. Dave comes out of the shower humming along. cat comes to greet him, meowing. Ah, there you are Fellini... Hungry, eh? Cont. 13 Cont. He goes to a drawer and takes out a can of "Chef Boy-ar-dee" spaghetti and meatballs. Still humming, he opens the can and dumps the food into a deep ashtray with written on the sides. Mangiare...mangiare... Be looks at the posters of the bicycle riders. He looks in the mirror. He takes a comb and combs his hair back in the "continental" style. Then he smiles. He picks up a book: and lies down on the bed to read it. big sign: The car lot is nowhere near the campus but the sign is considered good business. All around the car lot are other signs: The cars themselves have signs on them: PhD" The is a young college kid. Mr. Blase is showing him the It gets thirty miles to a gallon, of course the mileage you get may vary. It's a beaut, right? Right. You sure know how to pick them. Frankly this is the best car on the lot. Quality product. (o.s. ) Ciao, Papal Mr. Blase cringes. Looks up. He's on his bike across the street. He's waving. Mr. Blase is looking at his Customer pretending he has no idea who Dave is. He shrugs and turns his back and quickly glances over his shoulder as Dave rides away. Students are everywhere and so are classroom buildings. Tall, new, limestone structures resembling office buildings. Students sit on the steps outside the buildings. They are lying around on the grass and walking to and from classes. All of them have books in hand. The wind is blowing. He's sitting next to his bike on the grass and looking around at all of them. In his hands he has his Italian Phrase Book: the book being his admission ticket into this world. It's obvious he's feeling a little out of place, but he enjoys looking at the campus world. campus Police Car drives by and Dave quickly hides his face in the book. Waits for it to pass and when he looks up he is struck by something. She's coming out of a classroom building with a bunch of books and papers in her hands. The wind is blowing her hair back. The her face, isolating her from all the others, just as Dave is doing. His mouth is open. He blinks once. He swallows. Mama mia As she's walking, she transfers her books from one hand to the other. piece of paper escapes her and flies away in the wind. He sees the paper fly away and jumps up. She tries to go after the paper but the traffic keeps her from crossing the street. The paper's flying away. She gives up, and turns toward the parking lot just as we see Dave on his Cont. 15 Cont. bicycle chasing after the paper. He cuts through the cars, he cuts in front of them. The horns blow. The brakes screech. All Dave sees is the paper. He's on a mission. He cuts through the pedestrians crossing the street maneuvering brilliantly. He's just walking. He sees the piece of paper flying around and grabs it casually. Just as he's ready to read it a hand appears in the and snatches it away from him. It's Dave, riding away with the piece of paper in his hand. The College Guy just stands and looks after him. She's driving home. In her rearview mirror she spots something. bicycle rider. He seems to be gaining on her. She speeds up almost instinctively. He's. got the paper in his mouth and he speeds up too. He shifts his gear. She's riding along. She glances in the rearview mirror and sees Dave quite close behind her with the paper in his mouth. She shifts her gears too. She smiles a little. He's close enough to shout. He opens his mouth to shout. The paper flies out but he quickly catches it in mid-air. Signorina... He has momentarily lost ground on her but he sticks the paper in his mouth and pours it on. Cont. 16 Cont. She's crossing the street just as the light changes. Dave crosses on the red light. Once again he's nearly hit by several cars. He follows Katherine up the hill leading to Fraternity Row. He overtakes her just as. she's about to turn into the drive leading to her sorority. But Dave is there on her right preventing her-from turning. She too almost hits him. She slams on her brakes. Dave slams on his. They come to a dead stop. Signorina...You... He's handing her the paper but then he pauses and pulls it back just as she's about to take it. He wipes the saliva off the paper on his jersey, and then gives it to her. It is yours...no? She takes the paper and smiles. Then she laughs. You mean you've been chasing me with this? Well, that's redly something. Thank you very much. Talk about chivalry. Dave is just looking at her. She's never seen anyone look at her quite like that. She's a bit confused. Well, thanks again. Is nothing...niente...signorina. What're you...an exchange student or something? Si. am Italian. My name is And mine is Katherine Maxwell. Ah, Katherinal Cont. 16 Cont.l She likes the sound of this. But the way Dave looks at her is unsettling. Well, thanks again, again. Ciao,. Katherina. Dave'rides away. She looks after him. There's a big sign outside the house with a tacked over it. is walking up to the screen door. She knocks. Moocher appears holding a huge barbell at shoulder height. They smile nervously at each other. was just on my way to work... Come in. He pushes the door open with one end of the barbell and lets her in checking the street to make sure nobody saw her. She goes in. Moocher shuts the other door too. The two room house is empty except for a sleeping bag and a wooden foot locker -- Moocher resumes working with the barbells. You know what? No, what? I'm leaving home that's what. Whatl Where're you going? Cont. AiEVISED - - 8/12/78 w 21 Cont. About five blocks south. found a nice little house to rent. It's so cute could scream. My folks said could have some'of their furniture from the basement. Maybe you could give me a hand...moving. Sure...if...If I'm not busy. You know. How's the Job? You know what! Frank said if keep up the good work it'll just be a matter of time before become a head cashier. should go now. Maybe...eh...Maybe I'll walk you to work. have to go that way anyway. She smiles, happy at the prospect of a nice walk together. Dave and Cyril are going through the outskirts of the campus. Dave is riding his bike slowly. Cyril is jogging along. They go past the Campus Arts Cinema. Dave looks at the marquee: He looks away and then looks back at it. Some kids are playing basketball outside a garage. As Cyril and Dave are ready to go past them Cyril Jumps into the game. He steals the ball. He dribbles, fades away and shoots a long jump shot. It goes in. He rejoins Dave but he looks back at the game. It's clear he misses basketball. Dave is riding his bike. Cyril runs. Are your parents asking you 'what you're going to do? think they're getting curious. Cont. 23 Cont. sure miss playing basketball. got depressed as hell when my athlete's foot and jock itch went away. was sure I'd get a basketball scholarship. My dad was sure wouldn't. And when didn't he was real understanding. He loves to do that. Be understanding when fail. 'That's all right, Cyril, understand.' He even bought me a guitar because he was sure I'd never learn to play it. I'm supposed to take this college entrance exam. You going to go to college? Hell no. I'm Just curious to see if can pass. Maybe I'll take it too and flunk it. My dad's birthday is coming They part. Dave rides off. Cyril looks after him. She's driving Rod's Mercedes convertible. She seems nervous and is constantly looking from the road to the rearview mirror. Just keep it steady. Cont. 24 Cont. Rod and five of his Fraternity Brothers are riding their bicycles behind the car. Keep your elbows bent. That's right. Thirty an hourl Dave is riding his bicycle. sudden explosive noise of a tire going flat. He puts the brakes on. Dave is taking the front wheel off. He's peeling the tire off the rim ready to put on a spare. Katherine is driving toward him. He sees her. She sees him. As she goes past him she slows down a little but enough to.make Rod almost run into her. What the hell you doing, She speeds up and she and the bike riders go past Dave. On the back of the riders' jerseys we see: Little 500. He looks after them pumping up his spare. Mr. Blase is sitting at a table. Mrs. Blase is at the stove putting food on a plate. Those college kids aren't so smart. sold one of my worst cars to one of them today. They're not so smart. It's a good thing that Dave didn't... Cont. 32 Cont. Mrs. Blase puts the plate of food in front of him. He looks at it. What's this? It's sauteed zucchini. That does it. It reminds him of Dave. It reminds him of the kid at'the lot and his contradictory emotions about Dave's future. That's ity food! don't want no ity food! No it's not. got it at the and It's like squash. know ity food when hear it. All those -- ini foods. Zucchini ...Fettuccini...I want some American food. want French. fries, da=it. The cat jumps up on the table. Get off, Fellini. won't have any -- ini in this house. (to the cat) All the lights are turned off. Dave is sneaking home. Dave has his bicycle with him. Mr. and Mrs. Blase in bed. He's back. Dave is putting free oil on his bike. Barking is heard o.s. Mailman appears. He hands Dave the mail and continues x on his way, the dogs barking and snapping at his heels. Dave picks his magazine out of the packet and walks slowly to the house, leafing through it. He stops suddenly. He drops the other mail as he.zeroes in on-some article in the magazine. He runs in the house just as Mrs. Blase runs out of the house. They run into each other. Dave picks her up and spins her. What's the matter? The Italians are coming to a race in Indianapolis. The team (lets her go Grazia tante, Santa Maria. Oh, Dave, try not to become Catholic on us. Your father's quite Protestant. Dave is on his bike beaming with happiness, zooming down the street. He hears the dogs barking. He sees the Mailman. He speeds toward him. Jumps the curb with his bike, and comes to a dead stop in front of the Mailman. Jumps off the bike and hugs the Mailman, kissing him on both cheeks. Grazia, signor, molte.grazia! The stunned Mailman has no time to reply. Dave Jumps back on his bike and rides away. Dave is riding his bike. He's filled with joy and wants to share it with somebody. He spots a flower shop. He smiles and heads for. it. The clerk behind the counter is She was one of the girls playing Frisbee on page 9. You want the flowers sent to Katherine Maxwell. Yes. What's the address? Ah...She's in a sorority...on Third Street. There's a lot of sororities there: Pi Beta Phi, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Alpha Phi. Dave is very intimidated by all this. It said on the front of the house...it had...X triangle, triangle. The house, eh? Ah, yes! He is listening to the words. Dave-is coming out. Mike's car drives past at that moment. Mike stops. Cyril and Moocher are in the car. What were.you-doing in there? Eli...I...1 sent some flowers to the CHI-DELT...my mother. Guess what! The Italians are coming. Guess what? Moocher's going. Talk to him Dave! Mike's car with Dave riding his bike along as they go x through town. Where you going, Mooch? He's getting a job! Yes, a job! Moocher is standing outside Mike's car. The guys are inside. Cyril is-holding onto Moocher's arm. Moocher is trying to free himself. 'Campus' Car Wash. It's campus everything. feel like some reservation Indian surrounded by Disneyland. thought we were going to.stick together. need a job, Mike. He frees himself from Cyril and goes. Don't go, Mooch! They only let you out on weekends and national holidays! Don't forget to write! - 39 x bunch of College Kids are washing cars. The a very hefty, tall man, is talking to Moocher. You're a little late, but guess you won't let it happen again. Here's your sponge and here's your rag and there's your place. Cont. 39 Cont. Moocher takes the sponge and the rag and heads for the car wash. He goes past the punch clock. - Don't forget to punch the clock, shorty. We see Moocher from the back. He stops suddenly when he hears the word "shorty." He turns around slowly. He looks at the Owner. He wraps the rag around his fist. And then, with a sudden explosive movement, he punches the clock with his fist, knocking it off the wall. How's that? He tosses the sponge aside and walks out shaking the pain from his fist. Moocher walks out. Mike and the guys are gone. He puts his bands in his pockets and starts home. Mike's car suddenly appears. Everyone is cheering. Mike's blowing his horn. Moocher gets in the car. Jukebox is playing. Some kids are dancing. The place is packed. Here and there we see T-shirts with "Little 500" on them. The as we hear voices above the din. Cont. 42 Cont. (o.s.) The S.A.E.'s have their whole team back. They're all swimmers. See that guy there. That's Rod Sommers. He rode.seventy laps last year in the Little 5. (o.s.) - We had Mark Spitz in our fraternity but he wouldn't ride. -Who's the girl with him? Suzy says this guy's sent you flowers. So what? You never sent me flowers. Who is he, Kathy? Just some crazy guy met. God, don't know what's gotten into you. And what want to know is has he gotten into you, Bath? She slaps him. Rod looks around to see if anyone saw that he got hit.- of Katherine's girl friend, Suzy. She saw. She smiles at Rod. He looks away from her. She gets up. Leaves a quarter for the coffee and leaves. Rod looks around once again, and once again he sees Suzy smiling at him. He looks away. new loud song begins on the jukebox. Dave is riding in his church clothes. His trousers, as before, are rolled up to avoid getting dirty from the chain. He's feeling great. It's a nice day. He's been to church. He hears the music of Italy in his soul. As he's crossing an intersection, he sees Moocher and Nancy going down the street. He pauses...as if wondering whether to join them. Decides not to. He rides away in his direction. The Moocher and the girl. They are stopping in front of her house. Mrs. Blase is making some French fries. Mr. Blase is looking very neurotic. He's listening to the music filtering in from Dave's room. want an answer, Evelyn. What're we going to do with him? don't know, dear. suppose we could strangle him while he's asleep. That's not funny, Evelyn. Why don't you talk to him. I'm afraid to talk to him. I'm afraid to look at him. I'm afraid if did, I'd see his eyes twirling like pinwheels. Mrs. Blase brings the fries. The only reason I'm giving you these French fries is because you promised to calm down. Don't expect to get them again. Mr. Blase is still annoyed by Dave's music. can't eat while that noise is on. He gets up and heads toward Dave's room. Dave appears dressed for riding. They cross paths. Mrs. Blase goes to wash the pan in the sink. Dave sees the French fries on - the table. He sits down and starts eating them. The music stops. Mrs. Blase turns around and sees Dave eating the French fries. She wants to say something. Mr. Blase reappears and sees Dave eating his fries. Cont. 49 Cont. But the French fries are gone. Dave looks at his father x and mother. He suddenly clutches his heart. Oh, Mama... Mrs. Blase is frightened. Oh, my God. What's the matter? My heart, Mama. Mio cuorol It's his heart. It's those damn French fries he ate. am in love, mama, Papa. (gets up and hugs his father; then walks toward have such a pain in my heart. He walks out. Mr. Blase goes to the empty plate. Mrs. Blase opens the 'fridge and starts putting all kinds of food into a bag: cheeses, sausage, the rest of the eggs in the carton...bacon. Mr. Blase looks at her. What are you doing? Evelyn. won't have any heart attack food in my house. That was God's warning to us. If anybody dies around here it won't be on my conscience. What are you doing, Evelyn? These are all the food the doctor said you can't have... and they're all going out. Cont. 49 Cont.l She is in fact piling them into the trash can. Mr. Blase looks"on trying to keep his composure. I'm having a nightmare. Dave is combing back his hair in the Italian "style" while riding. In his other hand, he has his Italian Phrase Book. He's not''riding very hard. To the right of him,-in the fields, we see a few cows and horses. Above him, on the electrical wires, birds are perched like musical notes. He's riding and humming. The the birds on the wires and Dave seems to be humming a motif created by'their pattern. The utility poles whiz by faster and faster. Dave is facing the opposite way from the way he came. He's at.a standstill. He puts the phrase book away. His face changes. He's hyperventilating. hard competitor's look is in his eyes. He looks at his wristwatch. Dave is at a junction of a country road and a highway. He's about to ride onto the highway. He looks at his watch as he does. We see a truck behind him making the same turn. As Dave gets on the highway we see a sign: - 50 miles. The truck follows him.. Dave is building up speed when the truck passes him. Big smile. We see a big sign on the back: Dave speeds up and gets behind the truck to use it as a windbreak. He sees Dave behind him and speeds up, shifting gears. He shifts gears. He looks at his speedometer. He's going forty. He looks in the side mirror. He sees Dave. He sticks out four fingers. He looks at the' speedometer. He's going fifty. He sticks out five fingers. He can't believe Dave is still there. He shifts again. 567 Cont. 55 Cont. He's going all out now.. He's in.his highest gear. He looks at the speedometer. He's going sixty, He looks at the side mirror and still sees Dave. Suddenly he also sees a red flashing light and hears the siren of a State Trooper. He's still going hard only now there's no truck in front of him. He looks back over his shoulder and sees the truck and the State Trooper at the side of the road. Dave continues. Sweat is dripping down his chin. Pain is beginning to distort his face. But his legs move in the same rhythmical motion. We see Dave and his bicycle disappear down one. of the rolling hills and then reappear again on the incline. Dave is now a dot on the horizon. He shifts gears and starts to sprint. His face is agony now. As Dave goes past the sign, he quickly looks at his watch. He's elated. huge grin breaks in his salt-covered face, and he reaches for his water bottle and sprays his head with it as if it were victory champagne. Ahead of him we see the Marlboro Man billboard. We a phrase: Mike,•Cyril and Moocher are sitting on the sidewalk. Mike is looking at a magazine with the Marlboro Man on the back cover, That's the place to be...Wyoming. Look at that ...praires and mountains and nobody around. All you need is a bedroll and a good horse. Don't forget your toothbrush. You're still in your cavity-prone years. Campus Police Car pulls up. Here comes your brother. Mike puts a cigarette in his mouth as his brother, a Campus in his late twenties comes out. hear you've been hot-rodding through the campus again. was Just... I'll take the car back if you keep it up. All right, all right. The Cop is heading toward the cafe. How're you doing, guys? We're a little disturbed by the developments in the Middle East ...but other than that... The Cop goes into the cafe, As soon as he does Mike acts tough again. Cont. 56 Cont. Camp-pussie cop. Hey, know what. Letts all drive to Terre Haute tomorrow. There's supposed to be a whorehouse there. I'm eh...I'm busy tomorrow. That's funny. Me too. Both of them feel a little guilty. Mike pretends he doesn't care. Ah. never pay for it anyway. But it's dark enough to be evening. The sky is black and it's raining. Mr. Blase stands in the doorway of his office. He's looking out. For once he's a little relaxed. Nobody will come in this weather. gets thinking. Maybe he's thinking about his youth. His eyes fall on his potbelly. He sucks it in. But he can't hold it in. Lets it out and goes back to thinking. It's still raining. Moocher is helping the Waitress, carry in a huge chest of drawers. Moocher is carrying it solo. Nancy.seems worried. I'm fine. I'm fine. You're so strong. One of the drawers falls out of the chest. Nancy's clothes scatter on the sidewalk. Moocher pauses. Nancy puts the clothes back in the drawer and then she, too, pauses as she picks up a long nightgown. She. holds it against her'body as she folds it slowly looking at Moocher and he at her, still holding the chest of drawers. You know what? No, what? Cont. 58 Cont. I'm thinking of getting my hair done'. She puts the nightgown in the drawer. Then she demonstrates., pushing her hair back. thought maybe, something like this. What do you think? He's looking at Nancy. The new hairdo she's suggesting makes her look lovely. Not bad. Mr. Blase is driving one of the "fanciest" cars off his lot. Mr: Blase is dressed neatly. He's wearing a jacket and & .tie although it's hot and he's sweating. Mr. Blase pulls into the parking lot and gets out. He looks at the shop. The of is from the huge building. The gets as Mr. Blase walks toward it, trying to avoid stepping into the Limestone dust with his polished shoes, but the dust is everywhere. Several are having lunch. They are eating heartily right outside the shop. The is but they don't seem to be bothered by it. One of them looks. Well, look who's back. He has to shout to be heard. The others look. He's glad to be back but he's also trying to keep a little distance as if proud of how far he had come in life. He smiles and waves grandly, his suit and tie sticking out in this surrounding. 567 Cont. 58-c Cont. Damn it you don't look like one of them Government Safety Inspectors. No, a Union Organizer. They all laugh and get up to greet him. All except one younger man who continues sitting and eating. The Cutters slap Mr. Blase on the back, their dusty hands leaving dusty imprints on his jacket. We'll start you as an apprentice again. Like hell you will. I'm j us t visiting. But if wanted to come back could pick up where left off. The entrance to the shop draws him forward. couple of the Cutters accompany him. He takes half of a sandwich from one of them. It's lunch hour at the shop and the old instincts are coming back. Who's he? Mr. Blase looks back over his shoulder hurt by this remark. The is now Dust is everywhere and slowly through the dust we see men working, pausing only long enough to smile and wave at Mr. Blase. Mr. Blase is finishing off his sandwich just like the Cutter next to him who walks to his place leaving Mr. Blase, who has no place here, to wonder. Huge blocks of stone are being cut by saws...moving back and forth and back and forth in an almost hypnotic motion ...water falling down to cool the blades. Cont. Cont.1 Mr. Blase's coat is draped over it. Mkt. He's driving in wooden wedges into the cut block of limestone. Water is falling on him.. toothless old-timer is.grinning at him. It's hard to tell which is sweat and which is water on Mr. Blase's body. Cranes are moving overhead. Huge blades are spinning huge columns of limestone, chisels indenting grooves. He's borrowing a cigarette from a Cutter, lighting it. He's tired and out of breath. The man moves on to do his work. Mr, Blase smokes his cigarette looking on...in,love with this place and yet out of place. Man is shouting at him. He can't hear. He finally hears him. of the Cutter who didn't know Mr. Blase. Mr. Blase sits down in the chair where his coat is draped. He has sat in this chair before in the younger days. He feels the notches in the armrest. He picks up a piece of limestone. lying along the side of the chair and then he looks the place over one more time. He's on a bike. We don't know where he is. It's raining hard around him. The and we that he's riding the "rollers", a stationary device on which his bike is placed. He's outside his house on the porch. He sees Cyril running through the rain towards him. Cyril is wearing a yellow,.. rubber rain cape and carrying a guitar. Tffi3OUGH Mrs. Blase is mopping the kitchen floor. is singing in Dave's room. Cyril's is Mrs. Blase pauses in her mopping. There is a look of romantic yearning in her eyes. The phonograph is off. It's silent. Cyril, his tongue between his teeth, is a simple melody of one of songs. He's gloomy at the start, but gets happier as he continues. He's smiling too. He's wearing a hairnet. That's itt That's the song, Cyril recognize it. Yeah. Damn right. Only you'll have to make it louder. Real loud. Don't you worry. I'll make this catgut meow. It gets up and leaves. Mr. Blase has pulled in and is getting out of his car. It's still raining, although not as hard. He runs to the house. Opens the door and the cat runs out startling him a bit. He has stopped in his tracks and looks on stunned. Cont. 63 Cont. She has prettied herself up. different hairdo. nice dress. Some nice makeup. You...eh...you waxed the floor, eh? Looks nice, Dave and Cyril are riding double on the bike. Cyril carries his guitar. Candles are lit on the kitchen table. Mr. and Mrs. Blase are sitting facing each other. Mr. Blase picks up a carrot stick and chomps on it. Mrs. Blase.chomps on hers. Mr. Blase is so unsettled by the way his wife looks that he almost seems to be enjoying the carrot stick. How about a little mus,.c? Cyril is standing next to the building. He starts on his Dave is further out, standing in the parking lot looking up at the windows, few lights go on upstairs. Mrs. Blase is putting on the Enrico Gimonde album. of the Enrico looks out at us, smiling. Cyril is playing the same song that Enrico is in Davets room. We see several Girls ;.n the window upstairs. One of them is Katherine. Other girls are coming, crowding behind her. Down below Dave is Cont. - "BAmBiNO" - 8/12/78 144 68 Cont. He's using every gesture of a Neapolitan serenader. Only they don't seem artificial. He's in the spirit of the moment. She feels obliged because of her girl friends to look upon Dave's performance as something corny and silly, but slowly her face is changing as she is charmed by the song. Her girl friends hush behind her and they too look on as if sorry they weren't the ones being serenaded. In the back Suzy looks on too, Play it, Cyril! Mrs. Blase is standing in the doorway of the kitchen. She's looking at Mr•. Blase. Enrico Gimonde is Mr. Blase is holding a carrot in his hand. He seems ready to bite it, but some other instinct moves within him and despite himself, he gets up. INTa, 70 Suzy is on a phone. We o.s. Oh, his Rod. was just wondering if you knew that there was a guy here with a guitar serenading Bath. - 7o-A He's She's 'completely won over. Behind her we once again see Suzy. Mrs. Blase is in bed. She takes the flower out of her hair and places it on the other side of her. Mr. Blase is pulling off his T-shirt. Enrico is Dave's cat is Rod and several of his Frat Brothers are rushing out toward Rod's Mercedes convertible. - 74 x The Girls are applauding. Katherine is not there. Katherine is riding away on Dave's bike. Cyril looks on. The last light goes-out as Enrico Gimonde begins another x - 76 x Cyril is walking away out of the parking lot still strumming his guitar. car is coming up the street. That must be him. The bastard. He slams on the brakes. Cyril stops strummming. He sees a bunch of guys rushing out of the car toward him. 0oops. If were a cartoon, I'd go: And you'd see my tonsils wiggling in the back. He starts to run. Rod and his friends run after him. Dave and Katherine have returned. She's just getting off the bike, have to go in. Buono notte, Katherina. haven't ridden double since was a small girl and I've never been serenaded. So, it was a lovely evening. 'Molte grazia.' She's a little embarrassed by her Italian and Dave, the pro, gestures that it wasn't so bad. She leans over. They kiss. EXx. - - 79 His face is all bruised. He's drinking a bottle of Coke' and walking. Mike, Cyril and Dave are with him. They are crossing the railroad tracks. He won't tell me who. did it. It wax dark. All can tell you for sure is that they all wore Brut aftershave and smelled of Lavoris. What were you doing there by yourself. Cyril and Dave exchange looks. Just walking. h at kind of car did they drive? It was this Mercedes convertible. Cont. - - 8/12/78 44-c 79 Cont. I've seen that car. All right. They want to fight...wetll give them a fight. Chief Mike plenty brave...but say this: We rednecks are few. Paleface college students are many. counsel peace. Mike grabs him. C'mon. Let's find the bastard. Cyril sees a trash can. He hooks shoots with the coke bottle. It goes right in, and breaks. He smiles. Mike's car is moving through the campus. They're all looking at the cars going by. Mike's car is parked next to a grassy field. They're all watching cars going by. Cyril shakes his head. On the field a bunch of College Kids are gathering for a game of football. The College Kids are laughing and playing. He's not looking at cars anymore.. He-'s looking at the game. The game is over. It's getting dark. The College Kids are splitting up into little groups and going home. really thought was a great quarterback in high school. still think so. can't even bring myself to light a cigarette 'cause keep thinking should- stay in shape. And you know what gets me. Living here and reading in the papers how some hotshot kid is the new star on the college team. Every year there'll be a new one and it's never going to be me. I'll just be Mike. Twenty-year-old Mike. Thirty-year-old Mike. Old mean old man Mike. But the college kids will never get old...out of shape...'cause new ones come every year. And they'll keep calling us 'cutters.' To them it's a dirty word but to me it'll just be something else never got a chance to be. He falls silent and sticks a cigarette in his mouth. His genuine confession has caught everybody,. including himself, off guard. The guys look at him with sympathy and under- standing but Mike doesn't like that. He starts the car up. have to go somewhere. Dave and Katherine are walking together. I've never been to Naples, but it sounds lovely. Oh, Napoli. Si, signorina. So beautiful. We live by the sea. My Papa, he has a boat...a fisherman. -_My Mama, she has ten bambini...and am eleven. And when left for America, they all cry big tears... tears big like figs... Ka4:herine takes out a little book from her bag. Cont. 87 Cont. Look what bought. figured might as well learn a little. She's holding the exact Italian Phrase Book that Dave has. Dave gestures that the book is no good. ' You never learn Italian from book. know that book. No good. , They head toward the Union. Rod is with a different They are driving through the campus. You haven't pledged any sorority yet? No. You should. Most frat guys won't go out with dormies. I'm the exception. You're on the swimming team, eh? Yep. Breaststroke. He gives her his cool, full of hints, smile. Rod's car is going one way. Approaching him from the other direction we see Mike's car. Mike spots the Mercedes. As it's about to go past him Mike shifts his car in reverse and winds up going backwards parallel to Rod's car. Rod is looking at him. Mike is looking at him. Is that him? Cont. REVISEn - - 8/12/78 47 89 Cont. guess. Mike shifts the car into first and waits for an opening to make a U-turn. Who were they? bunch of cutters. What are cutters? Townies. He finds a gap in the traffic and makes a U-turn. Rod pulling in. Stops. Reaches over casually but deliberately and opens the door for the Girl. The Student Union is a large L-shaped affair. Music is playing.- few people are dancing. The-rest are seated at tables. The place is packed -- at least In the long part - of the In the short part of the away from-all- this., and'-out of view of the hordes, are a few other people. There we see Dave and Katherine. is coming up to them. Due capuccino, por favors. x The Waiter grunts. Mike's car is parked next to the Mercedes. The guys are looking at the car and then looking at the forbidding entrance to the Student Union. 567 Cont. 92 Cont. We can't go in there. Oh yeah! Watch this. All three of them start up the long stairway leading to the fortress-like Union. Rod and his Girl are looking for a place to sit. Seeing no empty spots in the area they head toward the area where Dave and Katherine are sitting. Just as they're about to turn the corner and probably see them somebody gets up and Rod takes the table. They are drinking their coffee. It's kind of nice to hear of somebody who misses his parents. Certo, miss. Just like you miss your Mama and Papa. hardly miss them. went as far as could to get away from them. Ah, but they miss you, eh? At home they sit and look at your. picture: Ah, they are saying, how we miss our Katherina, our bambina... Katherine is near tears. The homelife Dave's describing is obviously not hers. Not wanting to cry she takes out a cigarette and a lighter and Dave, being a continental gentleman, takes the lighter from her. He doesn't know what to make of it. He fiddles with it and then strikes and a huge jet of flame shoots out. Dave-is frightened. He lets go of the button, but the lighter is stuck and the flame is still burning., He blows'on it. He shakes it. Katherine starts laughing. Finally, in desperation Dave pours coffee on the lighter and it goes out. Cont. Cont. You shouldn't smoke.. go bring more coffee. He takes the cups toward the self-service cafeteria line. They are standing in the Uhion wondering where to go. They look lost and intimidated but trying to look tough. Dave appears in their field of vision at the end of the cafeteria line but they are looking elsewhere.. Just as they seem to turn and see him Mike spots a tall very much like Rod, going into the bowling alley. There he is. Our trio heads for the bowling alley. Dave is standing directly behind Rod. In front of Rod are several hero-worshipping Guys listening to Rod. The only way to train for bike racing is what we do in swi g : Interval training. The Germans... . they use interval training and the Italians... they don't. The Italians... they beat the pants off Germans. Dave thinks this is funny and laughs. Rod turns around and gives him a scornful look. Dave recognizes-him. Rod doesn't recognize Dave. Mike, Cyril and Moocher are standing behind the Blond Guy they followed. Cyril is goofing around with a bowling ball. He sticks his finger in the hole. The Blond Guy turns around. He sees the three guys staring at him. 567 Hi there, want to roll some balls? Mike, Moocher and Cyril are leaving the bowling alley. Cyril is trying to hide the ball he's carrying. His finger is stuck in the hole. can't get it out. College rids are looking at them. It's obvious who they are. Mike is leading. the way but even he's feeling out of place. My finger can't breathe[ As some busty Coeds go past him: Hi, what's your major? They enter the long part of the L-shaped room. Looks like he left. The trio starts heading toward the revolving door. They pass Rod's She's sitting alone. Cyril stops. And what's your major? Sash. Rod shows up carring a tray of drinks. Cyril looks up. Mike sees him. It's clear he wishes he didn't. Moocher resigns himself to the inevitable. Starts wrapping a handkerchief around his fist. Cyril is cringing. Cont. 98 Cont. That's a nice major...Sosh. What're you cutters doing here? Did you get lost. No. Then why don't you get lost now. Oops. feel like that cartoon again. bunch of Rod's cronies sitting nearby-laughs. They crowd in around the cutters. Cyril and Moocher look at Mike for guidance. Mike is on the spot. It's not that he's afraid of a fight, it's just that he's on a foreign turf. Is,..is that him, Cyril? Cyril gets the cue.- don't think so. Let's get out of here. Smart move, shorty. This is all Moocher needs. He hits Rod right in the tray Spilling the drinks all over him. Rod falls back knocking the table down. His friends jump up to his aid. Our guys are surrounded. The only opening is the cafeteria line. Mike is hit and falls back knocking down a tail row of plates, saucers, cups. Cyril is swinging the bowling ball around himself for protection. More rows of plates fall as the ball hits-them. The College Guys, led by Rod are trying to advance but our guys are throwing plates and maybe even food at them. The College Guys are throwing back what they can. Cyril's ball flies off and hits somebody in the stomach. By now its a free-for-all. Cont. 98 Cont.1 They are all alone now. Everybody on their side has left to see the fight. They get up too to have a look. He sees his friends surrounded and battling back. He wants to help but Katherine is right there. She sees Rod. The fight is going at full blast. What's going on. Just some cutters making trouble., Dave'-is stung by this remark. He plows into the fight. Katherine grabs rim and tries to pull him away. She can not tell which side he is on. Through the revolving doors the Campus Police arrive'led by Mike's brother. We go now. Katherine takes Dave by the Arm. They are breaking up the fight. Mike's brother looks angrily at Mike and the guys as he pulls Rod away. The cutters started itt His anger changes direction as he looks back at Rod. He's well-dressed. Jacket and tie. The dozen other student "leaders" are there. One of them is black. The is at his desk. On his far right we see Mike's brother sitting alone. Most of you will only spend four years here but to a lot of us Bloomington is our home and .1 don't like the way you are behaving in my home. These needless hostilities have happened before. They will not happen again. If you feel compelled to compete with the kids from the town then you will do it in a different arena. am looking at a plan to open our intramural program to them. And as a starting point, in consultation with Mr. Armstrong, we have decided to expand the field of this year's Little 500 to include a team from the town. loud protest is heard from everybody. But, sir, they're not good enough... Having them in the race... The whole thing reeks of tokenism. Everybody, even Rod, looks at him. It's sort of like: What are you talking about. Dave is on the bike. Cyril is walking. The funniest part is that tough-guy Mike didn't get a punch in. You should've been there. have to go. x 567 Cont. 100 Cont. Are you going to see Katherine., have to go train. The Italians will be here soon. CtA.o, Cyril'. - He rides away. Moocher and Nancy are standing outside. Moocher is fishing through his pockets for money. I'll pay for it. What do you mean...I've got money. We can go Dutch. On a-marriage licenses You know what? What? I'm scared. But like it. Dave rides past them. He looks at them just as they goinside. Dave is riding. The light is turning yellow. He speeds up to make the light. car going at a right angle to him has to come'to a screeching halt to avoid hitting him. It's Mr. Blase with a and his Family. The car stalls. Dave looks back over his shoulder. Sees his father and waves. Cont. 102 Cont. He's beginning to cringe, but tries to be confident. He tries to start the car up. He's blocking traffic and horns are blowing. The car won't start. Oh, damn. You know what? put premium gas in this baby by mistake. It hates expensive.gas. He tries to laugh about this, but nobody in the car is .buying the story. The and we Mr. Blase and the Family sitting in the car getting towed. Mr. Blase is draped over the wheel, his head down. The kids are crying. Will you please stop crying. The car didn't really die. It's just an expression. Mr. Blase is shaking with hostility. He's trying to drink a glass of milk but it's spilling. should have hit him when had my chance.' He'd be dead now. No more worries. I'll talk to him, dear. I'll tell him he'll either have to get a job or go to college. Collegel So he can thumb his diploma at me. He's lying on the bed exhausted but listening. Cont. 105 Cont. (o.s.) Dave's never thumbed anything at anybody. (o.s.) That's because he hasn't been to collegeI Besides he's probably too stupid to get in. (o.s .) Don't say that. He'll hear you. don't care. It's my house. He' doesn't understand English anyway. I'm sure he'll find a job somewhere. x He couldn't get a job to save'his x life. He's worthless, Evelyn. could die of shame everytime see him, goddamn lazy freeloader.. Similar as the opening of the film. Voices and laughter O.s. Rod, Katherine, Rod's teammates and their Girls are walking through-the quarries. discovered this place. It's really something. Wait 'til you see it. Mike, Cyril, Moocher and Dave are sitting on the rocks above the water. The mood is quite different from the last time they were here. There is physical and emotional distance between them. And why not? Cont. Ill Cont. Just...eh...don 't want to be in the Little 500. Christ, thought youtd Jump at the chance. Well, Just... He'looks at Cyril. Cyril knows why he doesn't want to be in it. Don't want to be seen with all those College Kids. That's the whole point.. They all be there we can beat those shitheads in front of everybody. It takes four guys to have a team. We-got four. We all enter just to get in and Dave rides the whole thing and we win. Sure...it's just that...eh...I'll be working that day. Dave has said it and now feels he has to stick with it. Yes, I'm getting a job. By yourself. Yeah, need the money. Oh, that's just great. You're a real pal, Dave. 567 Look, the time comes when we all... Cont. 111 Cont.l - '(interrupts) , wasn't talking to you. don't give a damn. You're not, a quarterback here, you know. At least was once( Which is one helluva lot. better' than being a midget all my life. Moocher is stung by the remark. But he controls his normal reaction with difficulty. Hey, c'mon. Cyril is very upset by all this. He's starting to cry. Hey, bambini, the Cosa, eh? Just drop that Italian shit, eh? I'm so sick of that shit. pall falls over the group. Moocher and Cyril feel bad'for Dave.. Dave's smile vanishes. He feels a little foolish himelf. Mike is almost sorry he said what he did but having said it he feels compelled to continue. Driving you to bike races. What the hell am your private chauffeur or something. don't ever remember- you paying.for the gas. Sure, it's fun to win. Get all the glory for yourself but when it comes time to do something for the rest of us... Shit. think you're just afraid of those college guys. And you're not? The only thing I'm afraid of is wasting the rest of my life with you guys. thought that was the plan. We'd waste the rest of our lives together. Cont. 111 Cont.l Mike stands up. He's ready to walk away. He pauses suddenly... On the other side of the quarry he sees Rod and his group. Dave sees Katherine and without making it obvious to the others leans back behind a rock. Mike is looking at Rod. Rod sees him and just stands there. His friends, Katherine included, seem to be trying to get him to leave. But he doesn't. Mike feels the eyes of his gang on him. He gestures to Rod to come in the water. Mike runs up his rock and dives in. Rod dives off his side. The two of them are swimming toward each other. They're going to race. What the hell's he doing. That guy... Cont. 'Ill Cont.1 They are side-by-side. Rod is smiling. Mike takes off toward one end of the quarry swimming as fast as he can. Rod lets him go. Looks up at his friends and takes off after hiu. Mike is splashing clumsily but going as hard as he can. Rod is smooth and powerful. He catches up to Mike. He changes from breaststroke to backstroke. It's all so easy for him. He's staying out of sight of Katherine. He's feeling quite badly for having to hide. Rod has reached the "all of the quarry and is waiting. Mike reaches the wal?...a:rhausted and starts back again. Rod seems amused. He thc,3ght the race was over. He takes off after Mike imitating the way Mike is swimming. His friends laugh. - Cb i-x All three of our guys are feeling badly for Mike. Once again Rod is waiting by the wall. Mike shows up. He can't see the edge. He hits .t with his head and starts bleeding. But he pushes off and starts going back again. Even Rod is getting to feel a little bad. How long is he going to keep going? Not much longer. There won't be an water left the way he's splashing. Mike seems to be half-drowning. He can't see where he's going. He's no longer swimming in a straight line. His head is bleeding and he's running into the edges of the quarry. Hitting them with his hands. His hands are bleeding too. Cont. 111 Cont.2 But he continues, splashing pathetically and yet defiantly through the water. He's no longer swimming. He's quite perplexed that Mike keeps going. Isn't it clear he lost? They are leaving the quarry. He watches Katherine disappear. He's angry with himself. He jumps out of his hiding place into the water. He's swimming in a total daze. Blood is dripping down his face. Dave is swimming toward him. Moocher and Cyril are behind Dave. Mike's arms go around Dave's neck. He's smiling a little through his pain. As he relaxes he lets his weight-sink on Dave and Dave sinks under water. Mr. Blase is sitting at the bar. One, more. And make it a double. Haven't you had enough, Mr. Blase? I've had enough'of your lips that's for sure. said want a double and want a double 'on the double.' Nancy looks at the of the place. He nods to her to do as he says. Nancy then goes and picks up the phone. Dials. Cont. Mrs. Stohler. This is Nancy down at Nick's. think you better come down. She is rushing in through the door of the Bar and-Grill. Mr. Blase is still at the counter. Nancy greets her as she comes in. Now much did he have? Well, he started off with a single order of French fries. Then he had some onion rings. And then he ordered a double order of each. Right now he's on a cheeseburger deluxe. She's heard-enough. She rushes to Mr. Blase. C'mon dear. You've had enough. Mr. Blase has a mouthful. He speaks through it. Leave me alone. Oh, you've got catsup all over your shirt. C'mon. Let's go home . Mr. and Mrs. Blase are walk. I'm just tired of it, Evelyn. It= tired of worrying about him. Who'd hire a guy like that? He'll wind up a bum.. An Italian bum. You could use some help. What if you gave 'him a job? Cont. 116 Cont. don't want him selling used cars. Why not? If it's good enough for you... Who says it's good enough for me? You do. Damn right it's good enough for me. But...I don't need help. Besides...he'd ruin me if hired him. weirdo like that... It's clear that Mr. Blase has higher hopes for Dave which he has difficulty admitting even to himself. Dave is sitting in his room and looking around.' The room looks empty and lonely. 'Dave is looking at-his magazine. We see four smiling riders with their arms around each other. There's a caption underneath the picture: car is heard pulling up into the drive. Dave looks up. Mr. and Mrs. Blase are walking in. Dave is waiting for them. want to talk to youl Yes, Papa. want to talk to you too. You know what you're going to dol I'm going to get a job. 567 Cont. 118 Cont.• This was the very thing that Mr. Blase wanted to say. He feels robbed of not getting'a chance to say it. You see. see nothing. Where're you going to get a job. This-car-.wash place is still hiring. Car wash! Car washl You should've died when you had the German Measles. No son of mine is going to wash cars. Dave is washing one of Mr. Blase's cars on the lot. He's whistling a Neapolitan song as he does. Mr. Blase looks on. He's unhappy to see Dave there. And he's unhappy because Dave seems happy. ,Hey, no whistling. You're a shag boy, so- shag. If wanted whistling, I'd get a bird. He's washing cars. He stops whistling and washes eagerly. The-sun's reflected in the car's windows. washing another car., In the windows we see a reflection of Mr. Blase's neon signs. It's evening. Mr. Blase shuts the sign off. How're you feeling? Tired, Papa. Cant. - - 8/12t78 64 Cont. Exhausted? Yes. Good. You might as well get used to it. From now on it's more of the same. Let's go home. have to train. Dave is riding his bike. car comes toward him with its headlights on and as they go past him: He's scrubbing a hubcap. We see his face reflected in it. Once again as the approaching car lights go past him we: He's waxing a car. He sees Mike, Cyril and Moocher driving past in theirs, waving at him. He waves back. We the car as it disappears and then: He's hc3ing down a car. group of Fraternity Guys go past the lot on their bikes. Rod's at the head. They're all wearing Little 500'T-shirts. Dave looks after them. It's raining. Mr. Blase is standing in the doorway of his office looking out. Dave is riding the "rollers" and eating his lunch. There's nowhere to hide from the rain so he's getting wet. He looks tired. He's thinking of the Italians. As he turns his legs we see: Then we see another picture, Dave is in the middle of the Italians. He has his arms around them. He's smiling just like they are. Cont. 124 Cont. He's smiling at the image he sees. His eyes are closing. He loses his balance and falls off the rollers on the ground. (The above sequences should be accompanied by music from Dave's Italian recordings. The music stops when he falls off.) Dave and Katherine are having coffee. Dave looks exhausted. He's ready to fall asleep. Are you all right? Si...T. just study too hard. have big exam tomorrow. Are you going back to Italy in the sunmter ? Si,..My papa needs help. Well, called up my parents. I'm getting a graduation present. We can go to Italy together. Dave suddenly seems to wake up. Maybe have to go to summer school. Papa...can have this Saturday off? Hell no. Just this once. You see the Italians are coming Saturday. Cont. 126 Cont. don't care if the second coming's coming. But I've waited so long. No. N-double 'o' Oh. We see one of Mr. Blase1s cars. The Homecoming Queen. bunch of College Kids are pushing it into the lot. You stay out of this. Mr. Blase is standing in front of the Homecoming Queen.- He's got his hands on the hood and is pushing. The who bought it is at the other end with his friends. They are pushing the other way. What guarantee? You gave me your word. On paper? Can see it on paper? There was no paper. You gave me your word. don't remember giving my word. (pushes on the car) Now get this car out of here. Dave appears next to him. Cont. 129 Cont. You did, Papa. You gave him your word. heard you. We are poor, but we're honest. Mr. Blase is stunned. What? Who're you? He starts to push real hard. All want is a refund. Are you crazy? Refundl He's getting very red in the face. Hess pushing for all he's worth. The Kids are pushing the other way. Mr. Blase becomes a fanatic. His veins are swelling on his neck. The world becomes'all blurred through his eyes, but he pushes. Suddenly the world starts to spin for him. He clutches his chest. He's ready to fall backwards, but with the last gasp of willpower, he gets himself to collapse forward on top of the hood. is listening to his heart with a stethoscope. Mr. Blase is in a coma of sorts. He's muttering something. It sounds very much like "Refund...no refund." The Doctor prepares an injection. Mrs. Blase and Dave are sitting at the table. The Doctor comes out of the bedroom. Dave and Mrs. Blase stand up. Well, it's not a stroke, and he won't croak, as we say. Cont. 131 Cont. (Cont.) (laughs at his own epigram, and lights Seriously, Evelyn. He's in terrible shape. He's a Mack truck with Rabbit engine. Once he's up on his feet he better start using them... walking... exercising... something. Otherwise it's taps city for him. Well, got to go. He exits. Dave looks guilty. ruined everything. No, you didn't. He needed a rest and now he's getting one. don't think I'll go to the race. should be here when Papa wakes up. No, don't think you should. Here, did ever show you this. She takes a passport out of her purse on the table. It's a passport. They're quite cheap, you know. real bargain. eep carrying it with me. One of these days there'll be a new girl at the and when want to cash a check she'll ask me for some Indentification and I'll take out my passport and say: Here. Won't that be something. Dave is moved by this gesture: By the spirit of yearning for travel that it implies and by the knowledge that she will probably not go anywhere. Oh, Mama... Cont. 131 Cont.l But she will not let him give her any sympathy. So,"I think you should go. You should come 'home singing with a trophy. You should do all that. while you can. win this one for you, Mama. Now that would be nice. We see Mike's car with Dave's bike on top. They'are posing Just like in the picture. People are taking pictures of them. They smile and wave making sure not to obscure the "Cinzano" on their jersies as they do. Cont. 133 Cont. We are proud to have with us today the famous Team Cinzano from Italy. They are touring America and so far are undefeated. Later on they have been kind enough to agree to hold a racing clinic which none of you should miss. He's in the crowd of other racers and like all of them, his eyes are glued on the Italians. Dave is putting a banana and an apple in the back pocket of his Jersey. Other riders are doing likewise. Almost all of them are taking bananas. (o.s. ) Everybody please move to the starting Line. We see all kinds of legs. Some are milky white. Others are tanned. Some are long and skinny. Others short and bulging with muscles. One after another, we see, the riders' rears meet the saddles of their bicycles. He's in the middle of the pack. He looks over his shoulder and waves to Mike, Cyril and Moocher on the sideline. They are in the front. They are looking straight ahead. (o.s. ) Riders ready[ Timers ready! gun is fired. The Italians take off. Cont. 133 Cont.1 We see the pack from the back as it moves forward slowly and then faster, and faster, the riders in the back working their way up. The huge pack of riders is now disappearing around a bend in the road. We the last rider in the field and him. There are stragglers already: individuals and little groups, and then a large group. We them The Italians, Dave and half a dozen other riders are in the lead group. They are separated from the rest by about half a mile. Some riders in the group are eating their bananas. Others are drinking water. They are approaching a hill. The Italians shift their gears and like clockwork the rest of the riders do the same. The Italians start sprinting up the hill The others pursue. Strain is showing on everybody. We see the pack climbing the hill. The Italians appear first.. They look back over their shoulders and see nobody there. They nod to each other and continue over the crest, shifting into a higher gear for the descent. Dave and three riders appear over the crest. Dave is in the lead. As he goes over the crest, he shifts gears and starts to sprint. The other riders cannot match him. They are bent over their frames in their descent positions. Their knees and elbows are tucked in and they are coasting down the hill. He's in the similar position only he's not coasting. He's pumping as hard as he can. Cont. 134 Cont. They are still in their descent. The hill is steep and they are going very fast. Suddenly, Dave, bent over and breathing hard appears in the He tries to appear that he's not tired. He smiles. Buon giorno. Come sta? The Italians look stunned. The is annoyed. The seems amused. The Italians are riding hard. The effort is showing on their faces. Dave is behind them. He too is tired. But when the 1st Italian looks back to see how Dave is doing Dave manages to smile. This seems to "psyche" the lst Italian out. He gestures angrily to Dave to take his turn up front. Dave is thrilled at the command. He moves to the front. The following conversations will have to be subtitled. Oggi fa caldo, none vero? (It's hot today isn't it?) Roba da chiodi] (You don't say]) He's up front breaking wind for the others. He's working hard and he's tired. The Italians behind him are likewise. Dave swings off to let another rider pull in front. As he does Dave once again smiles. He doesn't do this to fool them. He's just thrilled to be in their company. 'Cho tempo Para piovera? (Do you think it'll rain?) The nth Italian tries to calm him down. Cant. 135 Cont. Not to la prenderel (Don't get yourself worked up!) But the lst Italian is upset. He wants to drop Dave. But he doesn't want to kill himself doing it. He's thinking. The Italians are switching off as they begin another ascent. It's Dave's turn to take the lead. As he goes up front the 1st Italian reaches in and pushes Dave's lever all the way forward. This suddenly shifts Dave into a very high gear. He can hardly turn the cranks. The 1st Italian smiles at him. (Excuse me!) He takes off. The other three follow him while Dave fumbles around to get back in the right gear. He does not look happy. The and we Dave at the front again. He's getting a little more serious. He sees a huge pothole in front of him. He rides right toward it and then at the last second he jerks his bike aside. The 1st Italian goes right over the pothole. He's jarred and angry. Dave looks back. Smiles. Mi scusi! The 4th Italian appreciates this little reversal. The lst Italian is getting a brutal look in his face. All five of them are continually taking turns being up front. They are approaching a small hill. The lst Italian points to the hill. Dave is too exhausted now to fake any smiles. The pace is as hard as it's been. Dave is up front. Behind him we see the taking out his pump. Dave pulls off to let him take the lead but as he does the lst Italian pulls up behind him to block his way back. The sprints up front to block his way forward. Dave is trapped. The 3rd Italian puts on his brakes. Dave puts on his to avoid running into him. As his speed slows down the 2nd Italian sticks his pump into Dave's rear wheel. Dave sees all this. In the split second that it takes, he sees it all. His wheel collapses and Dave tumbles off the road falling down the steep grade. The Italians ride off. The 4th Italian slows down a little to look at Dave. He seems genuinely sorry about what happened but he too continues. He shouts after his teammates. He's a little angry. ..Bravo[ Bravo[ Bella robal (Congratulations[ Nice work[) His left leg is hurt but more than that his dream seems shattered. The tour Italians are sprinting toward the finish line. large sign flutters in the breeze. The 4th Italian wins and as he does he turns and fives the "Italian finger" to his three buddies. He's still angry at them. Cyril, Mike and Moocher look for Dave. The crowd is cheering. All the guys are riding in silence. Dave is crushed by his shattered Italian dream. Mendelsohn's Italian Symphony is playing: the second movement. They drive past the finish line of the race. The big cloth sign is still up fluttering in the wind. man is taking it down. Everybody else is gone. Dave looks on heartbroken. Cont. Cant. feel like one of those dwarfs ...you know...when they think that Snow White's dead. Mike turns to Dave. So guess you're just a cutter .again like the rest of us. guess. Mike's car stops and lets Moocher out. Car.drives o.a. Moocher is walking toward his house. He stops. He sees a.big sign tacked over the sign. Mr. and Mrs. Blase are sitting in the kitchen. No, don't feel lucky to be alive. feel lucky I'm not dead. There's a difference. The door opens and Dave limps inside. He looks terrible. Blood is still caked up on his left leg. What happened to you? It's nothing. How''re you feeling, Dad? Mr. Blase can't believe he's being called "Dad." Dad. I'll tell you how I'm feeling. I've had nightmares all night that everybody ever sold a car to is going to come in and ask for a refund. And you'll be there handing out the checks. One for you...and one for you... Cont. 142 Cont. I'm sorry gave him back his money. really am. Everybody cheats, Dad. just didn't know. Mr. Blase is a little taken aback by this..' He doesn't feel quite right about it. Re's a tiny bit ashamed. Well, now you know. So, where's the trophy? Oh, Dad... He can't help himself anymore. He bursts into tears and hugs his father. Mr. Blase doesn't know what to do. His arms are out as if he doesn't know how to embrace. What? What is this? Look ...you don't have to be this miserable. little is all asked for. What're you crying for? You'd think you lost your wallet or something. (even strokes his hair a bit) Talk to him, Evelyn. %. He looks up at her and she's so touched by this show of affections that she too is crying. And. what're you doing? Mrs. Blase shakes her head, but she shakes it in a certain way that makes Mr. Blase a little troubled. He looks at her again. Through her tea's there's a little trace of a smile appearing. He's taking down the last Italian poster and crumpling it up. The cat meows. You; hungry, Jake, is that it? Cont. 143 Cont. We Mr. Blase standing in the doorway looking at him. Dave. Yes, Dad. Mr. Blase is driving. Dave is next to him. The campus is deserted. Dave and Mr. Blase are walking slowly outside a huge classroom building. Mr. Blase lights a cigarette. Just one.. Don't tell mother. (looking at the You know, do.this every now and then. Come here at night and...I cut the stone for that building over there-... Yes,. know, Dad. was one fine stonecutter... Mike's dad...Moocher's, Cyrii's ...we all were. Well, Cyril's dad...Ah, never mind. The thing is. loved it. was young, slim and strong and damn proud of my work. • .and the buildings went up...and when they were finished...damnest thing happened. It was like the buildings were too good for us. Nobody told us that. But we just felt uncomfortable. Even now. I'd like to be able to stroll through the campus and look at the limestone but feel out of place. suppose you guys still go swimming in the quarries. 567 Cant. Cont. Sure. So, all you get from my twenty years of work is the holes we left behind. don't mind. didn't either when was your age. But...Eh, Cyril's Dad says he took that college exam. Yeah, both of us did. So, how did...how did both of you do? Well, think, eh, one of us did all right. But neither of us...eh...I won't go, Dad. The hell with them. I'm not ashamed of being a cutter. don't want you feeling bad. Don't do me any favors, eh. What, you afraid. Yeah, a little. And then, there's the rest of the guys. Well, you took the exam. You did all right, eh? Yeah. Well, that's...that's good. Your mom... (pauses, wants to say something, She's a"fine woman. Coat.. Cont. 1 Both of them smile. Both are a little confused. Mr. Blase puts out'the cigarette. Puts arm around Dave and heads back to the car. Dave is on the telephone. Yes, can speak to Ka... Eathy, please. doorbell is heard. (o.s.) They sold any house and Dave said could stay here for a bit. Dave hangs up the phone as Cyril and Moocher enter carrying Moocher's barbell set and a suitcase. Can sleep over too. bought my dad's house. (o.s.) There goes the neighborhood. Mike is sitting in the car looking at Dave's room. He's got an unlit cigarette in his mouth and seems to be debating whether he should join the rest of the guys. All three guys are sleeping on the floor. Cyril is in the middle. All are awake and silent. Our year's almost up...and... well...if anybody's got plans that don't include me...that's all right. I've got plans myself that don't include me. Cont. - "BAbIBINO" - 8/12/78 78 14+9 Cant. He tries to laugh but doesn't. Puts one arm around Moocher another one around Dave and closes his eyes. Dave and Moocher are walking. tried-calling her on the phone to tell her but- 3:...l Just couldn't. When she sees you in the race she'll find out. Maybe if she really likes you she won't care. You know Nancy and What a mess. You're a Catholic, Moocher. You ever go to confession? • b400CEER Twice. Did it make you feel any better? Once. Dave is in a confession booth. Forgive me, Father, for have sinned. What have you done, my son? Cant. 153 Cont. have lied and cheated. told this real nice girl that I'm Italian. Why did you do that? guess... well...I wanted to be Italian. guess still do. Me too. Ah, Romal Believe me, son, it's hard as hell to make it up the ladder of the church hierarchy if you're not Italian. You ever hear of an Irish Pope? You take St. Mary, now. In Italian it's Santa Maria. Ah, 'Santa Maria.' Do you know Silent Night in Italian? Fan-tastic. Even secular words like watermelon. 'Concomero.' What should do•, Father? Call me Padre, per favore. You see the difference? 'Padre.' Dave is waiting outside a classroom building. His hair is combed in an American style now. Students are coming out. Katherine among them. She sees him and is stunned. God. What did you do to your hair? I...wel1...I just... liked it better before. You look like everybody else now. She starts to mess it up with her hands in order to comb it back into its original shape. The results are not flattering. am everybody else. mean... 567 Cont. 154 Cant. She laughs. You look funny. You see, Katherine... Katherina! feel terrible. His Italian accent is no longer in use and it makes Katherine ,just a tiny bit nervous. You sound real funny tonight. Che Cosa, Franco? My name is Dave Blase. What's that supposed to mean? Nothing. It's just a name. made it all up. was born in Bloomington. went to Bloomington High. was the treasurer of the Latin Club and head of the Ushers for our assembly programs...I... Stop kidding around. I'm what you call 'a cutter.' Only I'm not really a cutter either, so don't know what am. And Napoli...and the big family... Dave just nods that they were all lies. Well, it was a good act. You certainly fooled me. Cont. RrVISED - - 9/13/78 154 Cont.1 just didn't know how else... Do you know what you are? No, haven't a clue. I'll tell you what you are. I'll tell you. You...You... But she's too upset to tell him anything. She runs inside the classroom. The doors close. Dave stands still. The door opens. Dave smiles as Katherine reappears. She runs up to him and slaps him on the face and then runs back inside. His face changes from a guilt-ridden sinner to one of almost anger. Not quite. But there is a hint there of: The hell with her thenI s - 155 Mike is holding the Little 500 bike. It's heavy and ungainly in comparison to Dave's Italian racer. Dave looks at the bike. Mike, Cyril and Moocher look at him. Can't even add some toe-clips? No, it's official issue. They said you can't add or change a thing. It's a piece of junkl But it's got a nice personality. And it's had its rabies shots already. don't think it looks so bad. That's because you don't have to ride it. Cont. 155 Cont. You don't have to either, Dave. We're not going to beg you. Plead perhaps, but beg...never. We have our pride. The hell with it. At least we got invited. That's something. I'll take it back. He starts to take the bike away. You actually seem relieved, Mike. Mike pauses. You don't think we can win more, do you? Mike is silent. Why not? Well, maybe they are better. I've never heard you say that before. Thatts because ,never felt it before. My dad would be proud of you. Our family motto is: It can't be done. We'll see about that. He takes the bike from Mike and starts wheeling it away. He gets on it and rides it into the garage. The guys look at each other. is coming from the garage. The entire bike is dismantled. The wheels are off. The bearings on the wheels are out. The cranks are off and the crankshaft has been removed. Dave is holding the saddle in his hand. He's pushing down on it. It's very hard. pouring olive oil into a large pan. The pan is on a hotplate. He puts the saddle into the pan and covers it. Mrs. Blase in the kitchen. truing one of the wheels. It's in the truing stand and he's tightening the spokes with a spoke wrench. He spins the wheel. It spins fine. - x reassembling the rear wheel. Putting grease on the ball bearings. taking the saddle out of pot of olive oil. He feels the saddle. assembling the crankshaft and putting on the cranks. He spins the cranks. They spin rapidly on their own. taking the. chain out of a kerosene bath. oiling the chain. 567 Cont. r - 6/16/78 156 Cont. assembled. Dave is finishing the job by putting on handlebar tape. He's all dirty. The bike is clean. He looks at it. It's much better now but his face suggests that it's still what it is. Dave is riding his Little 500 bike. He's testing the bike as well as himself and trying to get used to the new machine. He tries sprinting and in mid-spring he stops pedaling. His hand grasps his left leg. He's in pain. He drops his foot off the pedal and shakes his leg as-if trying to shake out a cramp. Katherine is walking slowly through the deserted town. She turns the corner and sees Dave sitting on the curb. His Little 500 bike is leaning against the parking meter. She looks at him. Wonders whether to say anything. Hello. Dave looks. He stands up quickly. He's stunned to see her here. What're you doing here? Katherine shrugs. They both half smile at each other. Guess what? Now Dave shrugs. don't know.. got a job in Chicago. Cont. Cont. Moocher's dad in Chicago. He's... He waves this remark away. And I'm going to Italy after all. With my parents. Dave almost slips into an Italian gesture. wish...I wish you a nice trip. You too. I'm not going anywhere. don't know about that. She walks away. It's dinnertime. Dave and Moocher are having meat and potatoes. Mr.. Blase is comtemplating halt a head of lettuce and some crackers. Mrs. Blase is at the stove. If you eat so much, Moocher, how come you're so damn small? It's my metabolism, Mr. Blase. eat three times a day, but my metabolism eats five times a day. Well, go back to work tomorrow. Aren't you going to come and see us race, Dad? He's afraid he'll bring you bad luck if he comes. Cont. 159 Cont. I've got work to do. That's all. Besides,-there might be another metabolism feed around here. You mean you might be a father. Yes, might, and your mom might be- a mother and you might be a brother. That way keep it all in the family. didn't think people your age... Mr. Blase interrupts. The'next. word might be your last, kid. Dave looks at him. Then he looks at his mother. She smiles. Dave looks back at his father. Dave jumps up and hugs his mother. You must be very happy, Mr. Blase. Of course must. You think have any choice? You said you were going to give them a pep talk. They don't need pep.. need pep. Go ahead...Give it to them. Mrs. Blase opens a kitchen drawer and takes out some folded T-shirts. We thought... Since you're going to be out there you.might as well tell them who you are. Cont. 159 Cont.1 He looks at Dave. The crowd is cheering as various teams enter to take their designated pit areas. triumphal march is playing. They are entering the stadium. Dave is pushing his bike along. We see them from the back. The word is stamped on the back of their T-shirts. There is something comical about this team. They are so uneven. Cyril is very tall. Moocher is very short. They are walking out of step. All the other teams are matched in height to accommodate the use of a bike w.th a set saddle position. They seem very nervous. The roar of the crowd. The other teams. The foreign turf once again. Mike seems the most nervous of all. They walk past Rod's team. Rod is smiling and staring at Mike. Mike looks away. Cyril doesn't. The crowd is hushed. Gentlemen, mount your bicycles! great roar is heard. pace car is leading the field around the track for one lap. Dignitaries from the campus sit in the pace car: Mr. Armstrong. The pace car is going faster. The starter waves the flag as they go past him. The car speeds up and gets off the track. The race is on. Cont. 162 Cont. The riders begin their mad scramble for positions. The entire width of the track is taken up by them. Rod is in first place. Dave is dead last but trying to move up. He's riding and looking for openings. Whenever. a little space offers itself, he shoots through it and moves up. As everyone goes wide on the first turn, he takes it on the inside and moves up some more. Cyril, Moocher and Mike are beating on each other in their excitement. He's moving up. Look at that CEiART big board with flip numbers shows: 200 laps to go. man is reaching out to change the number. As the riders come around, he flips it to: 199 laps to go. Mr. Blase is sitting inside a car. The radio is on. The local station is announcing the race. Int. Mr. Blase has a huge bag stuffed with French fries and pizza.. He's stuffing himself and listening. (o.s.; on radio) And so after twenty-five laps, the perennial favorites are up front. Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...and here comes...It's'the Cutters. Mr. Blase hits the car horn. Dave is moving up'to-catch the leaders. Behind him is a black rider. They catch the leaders and there are now five teams'up front. As-they come around to the pit areas, we see three riders from the fraternities swinging off for an exchange. As they enter their pit area, they slam on their brakes, and while the-bike is still moving, they jump off while-a fresh rider jumps on.': Dave'is in the lead for a while, but the fresh riders catch up. Rod is sitting and resting. He's breathing hard. His fellow riders are slightly out of breath too. He won't last. He-Ill last. Won't he? He'll last. Stop saying 'last '1 Almost despite herself, she's getting caught up in Dave's progress. She's trying not to. He's beginning to hurt. His left leg is bothering him. As he goes around the' turn,. his left foot slips off the pedal. He almost loses his balance, but recovers. (o.s.; on radio) It's amazing. After twenty-five miles, that's one hundred laps, folks... - "BAmBiNO" - 8/12/78 (a.s.;-on radio) The lead rider for the Cutter team is still on his bike without an"exchange. His name is Dave Blase... Thassa my boy! His car is running and he floors it while it idles and hits the horn again, grabbing the wheel as if he were in a race himself. (o.s.; on radio) And he's pulling ahead. He's... He's actually pulling ahead. There x She. Jumps to. her feet. Wants to yell., but can't bring herself to do it. Sits down. He's going all out. He's in terrible pain, but he's about fifty yards ahead of his pursuers. As he approaches his pit area, he waves for help and raises a. single finger. Cant. 168 cont. We're number onel No, he wants off. That's the signal. He's going to go one more lap. You mean one of as... Once again say oopsl Mike looks frightened. Het s. really pouring it on now. The president of the university is looking through binoculars. Well, had no idea. That's the fastest white boy I've ever seen. He's coming around the turn and he swings off and heads to his pit area. Cont. 168 Cont.]. We see Moocher, Cyril and Mike. All of them are panicking. They seem to be pushing each other forward. Nobody wants to be the one to get on the bike. Into this panic Dave roars in with his bike. He slams on the brakes. Jumps off. His left leg gives way and he falls. Moocher and Cyril run to help him up. Mike is left holding the bike. Go, Mike! Mike is frozen. We've got a lead, dammit. Get going. But the crowd, the other riders staring at him, the pressure of the moment is too much for Mike. He just stands there. The lead that they had is evaporating. The other riders are catching up. They are coming around the curve. Moocher runs up to Mike, pushes him away and gets on the bike. His intentions are great, but his legs are short. He can't sit in the saddle and reach the pedals. So he stands and rides just as the other teams come around. Rod is smiling.toward Dave. He's standing up and going for all he's got. But the other teams are pulling away. He's driving at full speed and listening to the radio. (o.s.; on radio) It's Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon...the Cutters are fading, but it was some try. Dave Blase seems to be hurt. The first aid team has reached him... Mr. Blase drives past the house. He slows down as if wondering whether to pick up his wife but then he speeds up again. Mr. Blase is entering the stadium through a turnstile. Mrs. Blase is standing not far away looking at-him. He doesn't see her right away. As he turns: They look at each other. He is surprised to see her there. Ev...He sure tried. Even the announcer said so. He is genuinely proud. Too bad he... He interrupts.. Too bad. nothing. The lead r iders pass. Lagging behind them Moocher comes in for an exchange. Cyril takes the bike. His legs are so long his knees just about hit his chin but he takes off in pursuit. Moocher is exhausted. Mike looks on. ' �Vl Kole) : 134; Where's. Dave. Mike points across the track. Dave is-in the center of the field applying medication from a first-aid station. It's all over. Bent over his bike like some human stork he's doing the best he can. He goes past Pit Area 34. Cont. 171 Cont. Some of the people in the crowd laugh. Dave is with Mike and Moocher now. He's got adhesive tape in his hands and-is contemplating bandaging up his leg. Rod rides past them in the lead. Mike looks at him. Rod looks at Mike. Cont. 171 Cont. Three black guys are planning strategy. They see Rod getting off the bike. Looks like they're going to save Rod for the sprint. You get on when he does. Stay behind him until the last turn... Moocher is exhausted. Dave is depressed as hell. He"s got adhesive tape in his hand but he doesn't feel like putting it on his. Leg. The-race seems lost. Cyril-comes in for an exchange.- Mike is the only one who can take the bike. He grabs it. Hesitates. Jumps on. Cyril collapses near Dave. Cyril seems quite happy. We're doing better than thought we would. Re's riding like a bull. He goes too hard and drifts out in the turns. He almost runs into pit where Rod is resting and watching him. He gets back in the groove. Moocher and Cyril are sitting together looking quite satisfied. Dave looks at them. He's standing on the infield and waving his cap at Mike as he goes by. C'mon, you cutter! He, sees his parents on the infield opposite their pit-area. They are waving to him, proud of what he's done. -Nancy has come into the pit area and is, congratulating them. I've never seen anyone try so hard. I'm so proud of you. We showed them, huh? Dave Jumps up. His frustration almost makes biSm look angry. Anybody can tryl is He sees Dave waving to him to come in. Mike looks nearly spent. Dave is waving at Mike to come in. Mike is coming in too fast but manages to break. He is totally spent as he gets off the bike. Dave gets on the bike. Moocher runs up and holds Dave in place. Cyril starts putting the adhesive tape around his feet, taping them to the pedal. What's going on. It's like Charlton Heston in.El Cid. They're going to lap us. The black riders look up astonished.. Dave rides past their pit. Rod sees Dave go past him. The rider for his team is not far behind him. C'monl C'monl You got him! Mr. Blase and Mrs. Blase are standing on the track. Both look stunned to see him back on the bike. Go, son, go damn youl Mr. Blase looks at her surprised by her outburst. Dave rides past them. Moocher, Cyril and Mike are jumping up and down. Nets coming around. He is gaining and making up lost ground. They, too are shouting something, but Dave no longer hears -hem. The Italian music is playing through his head. It's irresistable and he gives himself over to it for one last time. He no longer hears the crowd shouting, nor anything else except the music, and music seems to be carrying him forward. His face registers the emotion of hearing it...of giving himself over to it...and of a kind of farewell to'it. The three black riders look at each other.. They need a new plan, they seem to be thinking. Rod and his teammates are watching Dave's progress. They shake their heads. He can't possibly catch up. It shows 5 laps to go. Now all three riders are looking back over their shoulders. They see Dave coming on. Rod is getting ready to take an exchange for his final sprint. We see the black sprinter in Pit area 4 getting ready to take an exchange too. He and Rod look at each other. Rod and. the black sprinter get their bikes at the same time and start to accelerate. He passes the third rider from the lead group. Ahead of him he sees Rod and the black rider. It shows one lap to go. man is waving a flag signaling the last lap. Rod and the black guy go past him. Dave is behind them and gaining. Cont. 177 Cont. Rod and the black rider are riding abreast now. He sees them right in front of him. The Italian music is still playing as he catches up to them and pulls up behind Rod who's riding on the inside. They are going around the curve. Rod drifts out a bit and that's all the room that Dave needs. He takes the inside edge as they come around for the final stretch. All three of them stand up and begin their final sprint. It looks dead even as they're approaching the finish line. man is waving the checkered flag. Then, with about forty yards to go, Dave suddenly explodes ahead and wins by an inch or so. He raises his arms in the air. Cyril, Moocher and Mike are running toward Dave. They are Jubilant. They jump on Dave knocking him down. Mike's' brother runs up and... There's a look of family pride as they embrace. Nancy runs up to Moocher. She's still wearing her waitress uniform. She practically lifts him off the ground. Dave's parents rush past them. Everybody is shouting. The crowd is cheering. Confetti is falling. He's happy but he feels left out. Everybody is hugging and 'getting hugged except for him. Katherine is watching the celebration. She looks at Dave and then she looks at Rod not far away. Then she turns slowly and leaves-bidding a farewell, in a way, to a portion of her life. Cont. 177 Cont.1 Dave and his parents are walking off. Mike and his brother are arm in arm. Moocher and Nancy are holding hands and going their way. He's-holding the four trophies they won. He is trying to swagger but he doesn't know where to go. The guys seem to be going-in separate directions and he doesn't know whom to follow. The him. Confetti is falling everywhere. Wind is blowing it around the stadium. The branches are swaying in the wind. Leaves are golden yellow and falling off, swirling through the air, falling on the road. Mike's car goes through.the leaves as he drives up an entrance ramp onto a throughway. He's wearing.a cowboy hat. Cigarette is in his. mouth. He looks back at a sign: He lights his cigarette. highway stretches in front of him. It's been retitled Mrs. Blase, quite pregnant now, is sweeping the leaves. Mr. Blase is getting on the bike ready to leave. ,The leaves are falling off here too and blowing in the wind. Students are going to and from classes. We see Dave among them pushing his bike along. He's wearing a Phi Kappa Psi jacket. He looks quite collegiate and he seems to know it. But it's fall and fall makes you think of other days and Dave seems to be doing just that. walks up to him. She seems quite lost. She speaks with a definite French accent. Pardon...do you know where is the office of the Pursar. Dave looks at her. Some of his collegiate exterior fades as he smiles at her. Cont. 179 Cont.: He's struck. French music begins to play. Pursar? Oh, you mean the Bursar's office. Oui, Bursar. You're...eh...you're French, eh? He's riding through the campus, looking around. His son goes to school and he looks and feels that he has a right to be there. They're riding double on Dave's bicycle. She's carrying his books. The book on top is Beginning French. French is my major. It's just my first year, of course. Have you ever seen Le Tour de France? He gives it his best French accent. No. Not Oh, mon Dieu. But the French riders... they are the bestl Pouladoirl Anquetill Not only his accent, but his gestures are becoming French. Riding toward him on his bike is Mr. Blase. He sees Dave and waves. Hello there, big shot. Bon jour, Papa. They pass. Mr. Blase turns and looks back. His face registers mixed emotions, but the overriding one is one of acceptance. Dave turns to the girl. Je m'appelle... We his French gesture. Breaking Away : Steve Tesic