Written by Lawrence Cohen & Stephen King From an absolutely glistening ­ an image which first appears to be a brilliantly shining glass globe, and then gradually becomes more of a piece of solid matter, less of a mystery. It's the 1. like a picture postcard. Modest, old-fashioned, spotless ­ a vision of small town normalcy and virtue. This is the home of and her daughter It seems to have been scrubbed from roof to porch; it is white. Even the lawn seems to have been washed and bleached. Antiseptic. We hear a woman's voice: (o.s.) Carrie! Carrie The voice is distant but insistent. It is heard, in perspective, through the following prologue, which initially involves: An all-American sunbathing beauty of eighteen, getting the tan of her life with only a skimpy white bikini running interference between her skin and the sun. The the expanse of her body ­ luxuriant, taking it in inch for inch as she dreamily rubs in suntan lotion and licks her lips. The is coming from a transistor radio by her side; she's on a beach blanket in the Horan back yard. As she senses someone standing over her, someone staring at her body through the half- grown hedge which separates the Horan back yard from the White house next door. What are those? terribly appealing little girl, a child of indeterminable age. Pink cheeks, a halo of blonde- white hair which will darken in time. What sets her apart from other children, however, are a pair of bright button brown eyes; and it's these eyes that we notice as she peers at Stella through the hedge. Hiya, Carrie. Gee you gave me a fright. (turning down the radio) How long have you been there? (not smiling; pointing with her finger) What are those? Stella looks where Carrie is pointing; the top of her bikini has slipped, just barely revealing her breasts ­ white against the golden tan. Stella adjusts her suit ­ not out of any particular modesty of her own but as a reflex at being stared at so strangely. Those are my breasts, honey. (a beat; then solemnly) wish had some. You will. `Course you'll have to wait a couple of years, but ­ (a fact) No won't. Why, sure you will. (emphatic) No, won't. (glancing behind her) Momma says no... Momma says good girls don't. (at something of a loss) Well, I'm a good girl. And besides, doesn't your mother have breasts? Glances anxiously at the mention of her mother at the White house next door. She swallows her words so that all Stella and we hear is: ...dirtypillows. What? Momma calls them dirtypillows. Says she's got them `cuz she was bad when she made me. Incredulous. But she senses that Carrie is both perfectly serious and quite worried, and she too glances warily over at the White house just beyond the half-grown hedge. She kneels next to Carrie and tries to laugh it off. Now, honey, that's just silly. Listen ­ you must be real hot in that long dress. What do you say we go inside and get us some lemonade, would you like that? Clearly torn ­ tempted but in the clutch of some weird terror ­ as if she expected the earth to open and swallow her up. She shakes her head. C'mon. (offering her hand) It'll be our secret. Carrie ­ now really scared ­ shakes her head and disappears farther into the hedge. can't! Sure you can. make it nice and sweet, and ­ And just at that moment, a figure appears in the second-story window in the White house. Although Stella and we really can't distinctly see through the sun's glare, it's unmistakably The moment this big woman sees her daughter with Stella, she lets out a bloodcurdling scream: Both frozen by this terrible sound As she sucks in her breath, quivering with fright, looking as if she might faints. She looks quickly to Stella, then back at the White house, then back to Stella. For the merest flash, she seems to smile ­ or is she about to cry? And then, she's gone ­ running around the hedge and then up the porch stairs and into the White house as fast her legs can carry her. Stands there, riveted. Not knowing what's happened, what to do. It's utterly silent for a moment. And then, an incredible of strange sounds starts coming from the White house ­ an unearthly babble as Margaret White screams, rants, and screeches; as Carrie sobs that she's sorry, that she forgot. Mother! (louder) Mother! As ­ in an old housedress with the hem falling down in the back ­ rushes out to answer to her daughter's call. What in the name of God? What's the matter? (frantic) don't know... Carrie was just talking to me, and Mrs. White started screaming and... The sun glistening brilliantly on it as in the opening shot. Again, it should appear like a huge glass globe over which we counterpoint one mother/daughter dialogue with the less distinct babble of another: (v.o.) told you to stay away from there, told you.... (v.o.) I'm sorry, Momma. (v.o.) ...to stay away from that girl, that whore... (v.o.) Please, Momma! (v.o.) ... of Babylon! Which continues over: Their eyes riveted on the house ­ trying, squinting to see through the sun's terrible glare. Don't you yell at her like that! Stop that! That poor sweet child... Mother, we've got to do something! What? Call the police? Mother, call the police! (not about to interfere; hopeless) The child... At this point, the hysteric babble reaches its crescendo; we should be able to pick out phrases in this cacophony as Margaret rants at Carrie to go into her closet and pray for forgiveness; as Carrie's frightened little voice proclaims that she forgot, that she's sorry. And then suddenly the screaming stops and it's quiet ­ dead quiet. As it becomes more distinct, visible. There's a low sound, and then what appears to be a stone the size of a small pebble lands on the roof. Another, slightly larger one appears a second or two later. And then another, and another, and... squinting, blinking at the pebbles which are coming down like marbles. as it's pelted with what are now even larger stones ­ in the air like miniature bombs. Stones from a perfectly blue summer day. Stones ranging in size from marbles to handballs. One of them hits a downspout, knocking it onto the lawn. as these pieces of granite tear into the stucco roofing, leaving holes. The effect is that of a drum being bombarded. Frozen to the spot: Mrs. Horan with her hands over her ears, her screams blending with the of larger and larger stones as they pelt the house and we hear Margaret throughout screaming: Stop that! Stop that! Stella is clutching Mrs. Horan like a child terrified by the freakiest of summer storms ­ a healthy young woman as her figure in the bikini testifies, but a child nonetheless, this nightmarish moment. As still larger stones hail from the sky. And then just as suddenly and inexplicably as they started, they stop. Mrs. Horan with her hands still over her ears, her daughter standing next to her, transfixed on the lawn. Once again, it's quiet. As one final stone ­ this one the size of a mere pebble ­ falls from the roof and plops onto the lawn. The image grows lighter and lighter. All the color seems to bleach out, turning the screen once again into an incredible, silently blazing white. Now some years later ­ and no longer glistening so whitely or mysteriously. We see the front of the house as the door flies open. Carrie, now sixteen or seventeen, appears in the doorway, carrying school books. As she comes out on the porch, the screen door bangs behind her. She is wearing a shapeless, drab dress ­ much too long, not so much out of style as utterly without style. What remains in this adolescent girl that links her with the pretty child we glimpsed in the prologue are those remarkable eyes. As she comes down the porch stairs, we hear: Carrie! Carrie stops, turns to reply into the house. Yes, Momma. You come straight home from school. moment of hesitation on Carrie's part, a very slight hint of rebellion, but: (sweetly) always do, Momma. Then she turns, walks to the street, gathering pace, quickening. As Carrie walks down the path from the porch and turns at the sidewalk, in the course of which she passes by where the Horans used to live. Only the Horans no longer live here. No one does. It's a vacant lot with a sign out front, with overgrown weeds. From the looks of them, the house vanished a long time ago. Carrie is walking to school, the sun shining brightly above her. The farther she gets from her house, the livelier she seems. We sense that underneath this drab dress is a girl pushing out, an altogether different creature than her appearance would suggest. And to help persuade us about this possibility, there is About five, bikes on the other side of one of the streets, keeping pace with Carrie on a twenty-inch Schwinn with training wheels. Hey, fart-face! Hey, old praying Carrie! Praying, Carrie, praying Carrie, praying Carrie! Carrie favors him with a sweet tolerant smile and goes on toward the high school, in the background: Bobby, frustrated, stops astride is bike and screams after her. Bobby's face ­ Or as he is known in school, He is pathetically thin, myopic, weak-chinned, beak-nosed, almost a caricature of an adolescent reject. Over his face, we What are you going to leave for us, You people in your big cars Spewing pollution into the air? We the faces of adolescents, listening with various degrees of attention, indifference, or reluctance, to: You people with heavy feet Trampling down the wilderness? You people who peer into the back seats of our cars Hours after you come out of the back doors of your motels. Soon all we will have is each other, and that could be enough... Or, as he is known to his pupils, at his desk in front of the class, reading from an assignment paper. ...If you will let us have room enough And air enough And peace enough To love each other As you never could He sets down the paper, and looks at the class. We will see, among others, Carrie. We also see ­ a mid-seventies version of the boy next door. Good-looking, clean-cut, intelligent, athletic. He is nodding his head slowly, affecting a kind of puzzlement. must say ­ must confess ­ this poem displays an extraordinary talent... (the knife) ...a talent extraordinary for you, Tommy Ross. All eyes are on Tommy, who doesn't seem very abashed. In fact, he turns, clasps his hands over his head, to the delight of his classmates. But you don't get the feeling he is a goof-off; he is a kid aware of his own popularity and comfortable with it. Tommy, this is slightly different from running for a touchdown... Any criticisms? The usual hesitation. Then Carrie's hand shoots up. He appears surprised to see Carrie, ordinarily shy, volunteering. Carrie White? Her volunteering has surprised her as well. But she's stuck with it. The eyes of the class are on her. And she has to say something. So she does. It's... beautiful. He leaves his desk, moving into the class area, seeming to pounce on Carrie. `Beautiful.' `Bee-t-ti-ful!' `Oh beautiful for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain.' Is that the beautiful you mean? The class is snickering. Carrie throws a despairing glance toward Tommy. Tommy looks at her, and away, embarrassed. Carrie looks down at her desk, almost burying herself. That isn't exactly a criticism, Miss White. (looking around) Anyone else? (no one else) Well, at least we've finally gotten Carrie White to say something! Tommy looks toward Carrie, with something suggesting compassion. Then he looks toward Fromm, and he is muttering something. Or to be specific: (muttering) You suck. Tommy? You said something? Yes, sir. (moment; "popular" grin) said... `shucks.' But everyone in the class knows. Two teams of girls, among them and (sisters although not identical twins), and Supervising the game is wearing a warm-up suit and holding a whistle awaiting the next point. Among the girls is anxiously watching for the ball to come her way. It has apparently been a close game, the competition building steadily. When the shot begins, Miss Collins has just blown her whistle to announce: Okay, now. This is game point. This is the final point of the game and Rhonda Wilson is serving (she is on the opposite team as Carrie). (giving the score) Twenty ­ Twenty. The ball is successfully served and remains in play for some time as the girls skillfully volley it back and forth over the net. And then, just when the tension is its greatest, the ball comes over the net toward Carrie. It's evident that the outcome of the game depends upon her success. The little boy who decided to put his finger in the dyke had it easier. The other girls are shouting cautions and admonitions to Carrie. Carrie almost trembles with tension, about to bat the ball over the net, afraid to hit it. Carrie whacks the ball. She shacks it hard. And on a line ­ straight into the net. Another chorus of groans, with remarks like "Wouldn't you know!" and "Dumbo!" reinforcing them. Chris storms back toward Carrie. (low, harsh) You eat shit! Miss Collins blows her Steam partially obscures the girls as they whoop and holler and cavort under individual showers. They banter little barbed pleasantries, bits of sexual information, family plaints, talk of college ­ all of which we hear from separate stalls. One by one the showers are turned off, the girls stepping out, removing pastel bathing caps, toweling, spraying deodorant, bras hooked, underpants stepped into. Steam hangs in the air. So do words, running into one another, tumbling, drifting. `...Tommy says he hated it on me... My sister's husband picks his nose... So does your sister... too cheap to spend a penny... we'll go after school... I'm going with Billy, we'll meet you... Friday night...' We Miss Collins as she steps among the girls, spies Carrie still standing under the shower. She claps her hands together once, smartly. What are you waiting for, Carrie? (as Carrie looks at her) Bell in five minutes. Oh uh? As Collins departs, and the other girls start to move toward their lockers, Carrie is left alone in her shower stall. She is soaping herself. In a virtual reverie, she begins at her shoulders, moving her hands over her breasts in small, regular, virtually erotic circles. Her hand goes out of frame, below her stomach. Slowly, it emerges back into frame ­ full of blood. And just as she and we see this, so do the girls. Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Carrie stares at her dumbly. The other girls are quick to take up the chant. Chris leads them. Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Peer-iod! One voice chimes in: Plug it up! Others take up this new chant. For a while, like counterpoint, he chants overlap; then the new chant emerges solely: Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up! Dime-sized drops are striking the tile floor at Carrie's feet. For God's sakes, Carrie, you got your period. (as Carrie turns toward her) Clean yourself up! Carrie seems bewildered. (furiously) You're bleeding! You dumb pudding, you're bleeding! Carrie looks down and wails, the sound is very loud. tampon strikes Carrie's chest, plops to her feet. Carrie just stares at it. She thinks they're for lipstick. Behind her, another girl pretends to throw up. Shrieks of laughter. Another tampon strikes Carrie. Another. The girls are bombarding her with tampons and sanitary napkins, some from purses, some from the broken dispenser on the wall. As they bombard Carrie: Plug it up, plug it up, plug it up, plug it up.... We isolate Sue Snell at the moment she joins in the chant, and watch her beginning to be caught up in what can only be described as a fury. Carrie howls and begins to back away, howling louder and louder. The door is flung open by Collins. What is this? And she takes it in. She jerks the whistle to her mouth, blows and blows! The sound is louder than a shriek (which it resembles) or a howl (which it doesn't). And there is sudden silence. (to girls) Get out! Get out! The girls retreat, Sue last. It must be her first... Out! As the girls slip out, Collins turns to Carrie, who has backed up and is whimpering. Collins slaps her face, not too hard at first, then with a flash of anger. Miss Collins... Stand up. Take care of yourself. I'm bleeding. One blind searching hand comes up, clutches Collins' white shorts, leaving a bloody handprint. Damn you! She hurls Carrie part way across the room toward the broken sanitary napkin dispenser. Get over there! And take one! don't know... Never mind the coin slot... It's broken. It hurts... my stomach... (grabbing her) Do it! Now. can't. don't know how! There's a bright flash as a light fizzling out. Collins is surprised. What...? And she looks at Carrie. Her anger seems to seep away. Her voice softens. Carrie, don't you know...? (shakes her head, realizing and wondering) You don't. (reaches for Carrie) I'll show you. the principal, a decent but somewhat plodding man in his mid-forties, is tapping out his pipe as he talks to Collins. Isn't she a bit old for her... Well, he can't quite say it. Her first period? Ah, yes. Morty, until a half hour ago, don't think she knew there was such a thing. He hesitates a moment ­ noticing Carrie's bloody handprint on Collins' gym shorts. It's hard to believe in this day and age a girl in high school wouldn't know... something... the facts. Well, knowing that mother of hers... (cutting her off) Miss Collins, if you'd been with us longer, you'd understand we cannot interfere with people's beliefs. As for the girls ­ Carrie's always been their scapegoat. So they... You'll have to do something. will. But understood how those girls felt. The whole thing just made me want to take the girl and shake her. Ummm. It's just her period, for God's sake. (cutting in; uncomfortable) We'll send her home. (to intercom) Miss Finch, send in Cassie Wright. It's Carrie White. (fiddling with paper clips on his desk) Oh. The door is opened. Carrie stands in the doorway. Come in, Cassie. Collins starts to correct him, but: Close the door. No, wait. (up) Miss Finch, bring in a dismissal slip. (to Carrie) think you might take the rest of the day and go home and, uh, well... take care of yourself, Cassie. (hardly a murmur) Carrie. We're all sorry about this incident. elderly, spinsterish, goggles in with the yellow dismissal slip, brings it to Morton who initials it. (to Finch, as she goes) Thank you. (to Carrie) Would you like to go to the infirmary?... Carrie is shaking her head. ...lie down for a while... think Carrie can go home. Would you like a ride? Again, Carrie is shaking her head. We could call you a cab. I'm sure she can walk home. And Carrie, you're excused from gym for a week. Take study hall instead. Morton picks up the dismissal slip, hands it to Carrie. We are sorry about this, Cassie. (sudden fury) That's not my name! Two things happen simultaneously; Morton recoils slightly and the ashtray quakes a little and then tumbles from the desk. Then Carrie goes out. Morton comes around the desk, stoops to pick up the ashtray, stares at it curiously for a moment, then looks at Collins. (slowly) That reminds me. light blew out while was trying to calm her down. I'll send a janitor to fix it. Okay, that's reality. He puts the ashtray back on the desk decisively, dismissing any "peculiar" thought he may have had. to show red circles of a traffic light. Carrie is standing at an intersection, waiting for the light to change. Cars are flashing by; they seem to leave blurs of light. Carrie's tormentors. Carrie. The girls throwing tampons and sanitary napkins. Carrie, hatred showing. Suddenly their motions are Their images polarize; the girls disappear, except for Chris. Her image Concentrating her hatred It begins to shatter. And then explodes. Turns green She walks across the street. quiet residential street in a lower middle-class neighborhood. Carrie is walking down the street, slowly. There comes Bobby Erbeter again on his bike, paralleling Carrie (as before) Hey, fart-face! Hey, old praying Carrie! She keeps on walking, ignoring him. Keeping pace with Carrie, shouting across the street. Fart-face, fart-face, fart-face... Turning toward him, her face contorted with rage. The bike wobbles on its training wheels. And the bike topples over, on top of Bobby, who screams now, featuring her eyes most prominently. Her face is uncertain, confused. What just happened? She thought (that's right, thought) something and it happened... And we another more of an angry shriek, and then the strange sight and of: As the stones pelt the White bungalow years ago. The stones pelting the roof. She is staring across the street at: Screaming with anger (more than anything else) as he disentangles himself. He stands up, looks toward Carrie across the street, shakes his little fist. (defiantly) Fart-face! The boy's defiant chant can be heard as Carrie blinks, wondering. Then she opens her eyes, wider. She looks at the boy. She frowns for a moment. The stones. The light bulb exploding. The ashtray falling. We hear: Fart-face, fart-face, fart-face! faint smile, partly of wonder, partly of a strange kind of joy. She knows. Sue's mother. Out of a margarine commercial ­ a packaged, nice lady, neat, trim ­ a good mother, good wife. She is preparing dinner; in her line of sight, a television game show glitters. Eleanor frowns momentarily, leaves the kitchen. Through the middleclass, rather tasteful home, to the front door. Eleanor opens the door. Standing in the doorway. She is a large lady dressed in black, carrying a worn black leather sack, which we will discover is bulging with religious tracts. Margaret White is not a welcome visitor, but Eleanor Snell is a polite lady. Oh, Mrs. White. How have you been, Mrs. Snell? Fine. And the doctor? Fine. And your daughter? Sue is... fine. An impasse. Finally Eleanor feels constrained to open the door wider, put a smile on her face, and: Won't you come in, Mrs. White? Thank you. She steps inside and Eleanor closes the door behind her, saying: think Carrie is in some of Sue's classes. Yes. Perhaps some time Carrie might visit... I'm here on the Lord's work. Yes, of course. Margaret is fishing tracts out of her bag. These will interest the doctor and you. Eleanor looks at the tracts with pretended interest I'm sure they will. And your daughter. (a smile) Well, don't think Sue would be ­ (cutting in) Children are godless these days, Mrs. Snell. Margaret's voice is almost toneless ­ now and throughout. My Sue is a good girl. These are Godless times. I'll drink to that! Humor ­ and she regrets it immediately. (continuing; quietly) We'll all read... these. The telephone Excuse me. (retreating) Please sit down. Margaret doesn't sit, and Eleanor flees into the kitchen. As Eleanor reaches the phone. Hello... Betty, can call you back? Margaret White is here... Right... right... Let me get rid of her and I'll call you back. She hangs up, opens a drawer, takes out some hidden household money (a couple of bills), and drags herself back into the living room. Margaret is still where we left her. We'd like to contribute ten... (a look at Margaret) ...twenty dollars. Thank you. I'll give you a receipt. Eleanor shifts from foot to foot while Margaret writes out the receipt, gives it to her. Thank you, Mrs. White. I'll pray you find Jesus before it's too late. What can one say? Eleanor stands there, completely exasperated but retaining her politeness like a steel, middle-class glove. She accompanies Margaret to the door and the latter leaves. Eleanor is about to close the door, stops, seeing: Sue is coming toward the door. She passes Margaret with a quick (inaudible) greeting and hurries to the front door where her mother is waiting. That's Carrie White's mother... As Eleanor nods and closes the door. (apprehensively) What did she want? (indicating tracts) She gave us these ­ (conspiratorial sigh) ...and gave her a donation. Sue's face betrays relief, but Eleanor notices nothing. (brightly) Well, how was school today? Today? Like always. Sue, staring at the tracts on the table (or perhaps out the window as Margaret leaves). long beat, then: Who is sitting in an old Boston rocker by the window in her room which overlooks the street. She is wearing just a slip or perhaps an old terrycloth robe ­ her plain dress and school books on the narrow bed. She is leafing through a teenage magazine on the order of "Seventeen" ­ absorbed in the mundane fantasies of models in their pantyhose and underwear; long gowns and mystery men. An escape of sorts. And we reveal Carrie's bedroom in the low attic of the White house: tiny, plain, severe. It's decorated with just the fewest embellishments (i.e. high school pennant) that Margaret would allow in exchange for her own prices ­ a crucifix above Carrie's bed, a small bureau with an equally small mirror, a Bible and plastic glow-in-the-dark Madonna and child, and various religious prints and plaster quotations on the wall. Caught up in the magazine, in the most normal of female fantasies courtesy of the slick Madison Avenue mind. And then, with that extra sense of perception apparatus that fears it's about to be caught doing something it shouldn't, Carrie glances out the window and down to see: As this formidable vision of black strides down the walk. Another woman like this would be coming home from a funeral; Margaret actually seems to like black. Her heart pounding as we glimpse that look of terror we witnessed earlier ­ a scared little girl now encased in the body of an adolescent. As she hears Margaret close the front door and call out her name as she hangs up her coat, Carrie hastily stashes the magazine under the mattress. Then she begins to dress as we hear the of Margaret in the kitchen, starting her daily afternoon ritual of making tea. And then the telephone ­ only to stop as Margaret picks up the receiver. It's just as Carrie dreaded ­ it's the school ­ and she stands by the door, trying desperately to overhear Margaret's muffled voice. And then Margaret hangs up, and in a deadly tone of voice ­ not yelling but enunciation with a terrible clarity ­ she calls up the stairs: know you're listening. Come downstairs. And defeated, Carrie braces herself and goes down the: As she hurries down toward her mother and into: Where Margaret is standing by the stove, her back to her in stony silence. Hello, Momma. No response. The teakettle is just beginning to boil over the gas burner, and in this altogether strange little kitchen ­ a veritable arsenal of lace-tatted religious art ­ Margaret is a rock. Carrie sits down at the kitchen table, bursting with shame and the need to talk. Yet she recognizes her mother's wall of silence, knowing she won't speak until she's ready. They've been through this dance a thousand times. Finally, Carrie breaks. Who was it that called? (no response) What did they say? Point one and some grim satisfaction. Yet she doesn't respond immediately. Then she turns from the stove. (softly) You're a woman now. Oh Momma, why didn't you tell me something? was so scared... Margaret walks over to the table and sits next to Carrie. She puts on rimless glasses, then opens the Bible and starts to read with one of those strange Kathryn Kuhlman looks on her face: `And God made Eve from the rib of Adam. And Eve was weak and loosed the raven on the world, and the raven was called Sin ­ ` She pushes the Bible at Carrie, her finger on the place. ...and the raven was called sin... Why didn't you tell me? Oh, Momma ­ (overriding) ...and the raven was called Sin! ...and the first sin was intercourse. was so scared! And the other girls, they made fun of me and threw things and ­ Margaret's hand flashes out, backhanding Carrie into the wall. It's a wallop of a slap, the sting of it bringing tears to her eyes. Momma, please listen. It wasn't my fault. Another backhanded blow knocks Carrie to the floor. Momma! And Eve was weak and... say it, woman! Kick. Momma, please help me. And Eve was weak and loosed the raven on the world. They threw things... (overriding) ...and the raven was called Sin... Sin! ...and the first sin was intercourse. Momma, please listen. kick. And the Lord visited Eve with a curse, and the curse was the Curse of Blood! The teakettle starts to You should have told me! Margaret clutches Carrie's wrist in a vise. (heavenward) Lord, help this sinning woman see the sin of her days and ways. Show her that if she had remained sinless ­ No! -- the Curse of Blood would never have come on her. She may have been tempted by the Antichrist. She may have committed the Sin of Lustful Thoughts. The teakettle is louder ­ a high-pitched scream. No, Momma. Don't you lie to me, Carietta, don't you know by now can see inside you? can see your sin just as surely as God can. Momma, let me go. Margaret flings open the door of the kitchen closet. We will pray. We will pray, woman, we will pray to Jesus for our woman-weak, wicked, sinning souls... She switches on the light, and there is Jesus on the wall, rictus, crown of thorns, bathed in an ominous blue light. vision of a wrathful God. Throughout the following, Carrie struggles desperately, but she's no match for her mother. And the Lord visited Eve with a Curse, and the Curse was the Curse of Blood. And there was a Second Curse, and this was the Curse of Childbearing, and Eve brought forth Cain in sweat and blood! She propels Carrie into the closet, slams the door behind her. Margaret's voice continues, overlapping onto: Very much the little girl now as she sinks to the floor of the closet ­ crying, disheveled, beaten. The closet is just what every child ever dreaded about the night. Looking down at Carrie. She looks away ­ and inwards. With her, we see: Falling on the shower floor. Surrounding Carrie, jeering her, bombarding her. Impassive, impersonal, unconcerned ­ or so it seems. In the forefront of the pack. As the girls would see her, cowering, the bloody napkins pelting her. The blood seems to be streaming down his face; it moves. Tears are streaming down her face. She whispers: Please! on Tommy Ross' 1963 Ford, which is parked in the shadows on The Hill (something of a ridge which overlooks the town and is dedicated to Eros by high school students and occasional graduates). The swells as we And finally, we into the car, where we see: Sue and Tommy have finished making love in the back seat. They are both putting their clothes in order, silently, slowly. Then they climb into the front seat. Sue takes out a cigarette. Tommy lights it with the dashboard lighter. They say nothing as Sue smokes for a few moments. Then Tommy looks at her closely. Hey. She turns away. Hey, what's the matter? He puts his arm around her clumsily. Nothing. What did do? Nothing. It's not you. Hey, everything's all right. love you, honey. (silence) Did (blurting) It's Carrie. Who? Carrie. Carrie White. Praying Carrie? (sharply) Don't call her that. (imitating Carrie) It's... beautiful. (laughing) That's what she said when read that poem you wrote for me. Tommy, please... (going on) And Big Belly Fromm saying... (imitating) That isn't exactly criticism, Miss White. (exploding) Jesus! Sue has turned away from him. Hey, honey, it was a beautiful poem. wish could have written it. (silence) Honey? Don't call me that. Don't call her that. Don't call me that. What the hell's the matter with you? She is crying, that's what. Hey, are you crying? (yes, stupid) Are you? He tries to turn her toward him. She struggles. Manfully, he forces her around. Jesus, Sue, what is it? (trying to turn away) told you. Told me what? About Carrie. That thing in the shower? (she's silent) Hey, it was a joke, wasn't it? mean, everyone was doing it. I'm not everyone. You're special. was one of them. So you were teasing Carrie White ­ We were hurting her ­ She's used to it. Jesus, you remember how she'd get down on her knees and say grace in the cafeteria... alone, for Christ's sake. And the way she dresses... Hey, Sue, she's asking for it. (vehemently) How would you like to be Carrie White? How would like to be Carrie White? How would you like to be Carrie White? How would you like to be Carrie White instead of being Tommy Ross... big man, big jock, popular. What's the big deal about being popular? mean, one day I'll wake up and find myself working at my dad's car lot and out Friday nights and Saturdays at Uncle Billy's or the Cavalier drinking beer and maybe married with a bunch of kids... (stops) What's that got to do with Carrie White? Or anything? did something wrong and feel bad about it. can understand that. Hey, back in seventh grade, there was this kid... (interrupting) I've got to do something about it. Like what? don't know yet. Apologize. Okay, you tell her you're sorry. That's not enough. That's like something my mom would do. What are you going to do? Kiss her, for God's sake? God, hate you sometimes! What the hell do you want me to do? want you to help me. Or are you just interested in fucking me? (angrily) Don't say that! Fucking me, fucking me... Cut it out! Then help me! Tommy moves back from Sue. He is looking at her, trying to figure her out. He wants to do something, he doesn't want an argument, but... Okay, what can do? want you to think about Carrie White. (incredulously) You want me to sit here and think about... Jesus! (moment) Are you serious? (moment) You're serious. (moment) What's there to think about? Think about it. Jesus. He stares off through the windshield. He is really puzzled. He steals a look at Sue. He starts to put his arm around her; she moves a little, subtly but clearly. Tommy stares off into space again. never thought about her. mean, she wasn't someone you had to think about. (beat) She was always there ­ keeping to herself in that stupid dress ­ that weird mother. (beat) You know what mean? Sue glances toward him. Of course she knows. And he is beginning to understand. Tommy looks straight ahead again. He is starting to think. It's not all that easy. (almost under his breath) Carrie White? It does come out as a question. Margaret is at the sewing machine. She is either listening to a reasonable facsimile of Kathryn Kuhlman preaching on the radio, or instead, to an old Victrola which plays Tennessee Ernie Ford's "Let the Lower Lights Be Burning." Black Forest cuckoo clock, providing a sense of lapsed time. Suddenly the treadle on the sewing machine depresses itself. The needle begins to dip up and down; the bobbin whirs and jerks. Margaret turns around to see: She is standing in the entrance of the living room. Her demeanor seems more peaceful, calm, almost too calm. touch of fear in her eyes. But: Go to bed. She crosses over to her mother, kisses her lightly on the (unmoving) head. Good night, Momma. Carrie goes to the stairs. With Carrie. Carrie goes into her room. Carrie turns on a light. She undresses slowly, wearily. And then she stops and looks at herself in the mirror. close, tired inspection. Her eyes seem hollow, haunted. Carrie doesn't like what she sees; she doesn't like herself. Flex. Slowly cracks appear in the mirror, spiderwebs. Flex. The mirror cracks wider. And flex: the mirror shatters, crashes to the dresser in pieces, loudly; some of the pieces fall on the floor. Carrie! Carrie? Carrie! moment of utter panic ­ now what? As Margaret strides up them, past the landing, and tries the knob on Carrie's door. It's locked. She rattles the knob. But to no avail. Then: Carrie! Carrie, open this door! (a beat; nothing) Carrie! Another beat; then: (sweetly) It's open, Momma. Margaret tries the knob again, and it is, indeed, open. Where Carrie is kneeling by her bed, now in her flannel nightgown, praying. What was that noise? Nothing, Momma. Margaret peers around the room; she did hear a mirror break, no mistake about it. But there it is ­ whole again as her reflection in it testifies. Margaret walks over to it, rearranges the plastic glow-in-the-dark Madonna and child on the dresser. Go to bed. She leaves the doorway and we return to Carrie, who smiles sweetly. And then: Flex. The door slams closed. Down the class of twenty-five or so girls, still in their street clothes, lined up against the gym wall under their class numbers as: Walks in front of them with a clipboard taking roll. Collins ...Shyres... (o.s.) Present ...Snell... Sue Here. (o.s.) Watson... Present. The to an empty space ­ without being told, we can tell it's Carrie's. Hesitates, then moves right along. ...and the Wilsons. Who're identical twins. Here... ...Miss Collins. (small smile; then, closing her book) Okay. Sit down. All the girls ­ except Chris ­ obey. You too, Chris. And spit out that gum. (overly sweet) Where'll put it, Miss Collins? You can choke on it for all care. Now sit down. Pausing for a second, then deciding it's better to go along without talking back. She sits down. Shifting nervously, unused to Collins' absolute no-nonsense tone. Taking a deep breath. Okay. just want you all to know that you did a shitty thing yesterday. really shitty thing. the freckled, slightly pudgy girl sitting next to Sue ­ giggles nervously. But no one joins her, and she clasps her hand over her mouth, trying to stifle it. Glaring at Helen, silencing her. Did any of you stop to think that Carrie White has feelings? Do any of you ever stop to think? No, guess you've got your minds on your dates and the Prom. Chris, imagine you can take your pick, who's the lucky guy? (mumbling) Billy Nolan. (loudly) Who? Speak up! can't hear you. Chris tries to control her anger ­ is barely able to. Billy Nolan Collins ­ eye-to-eye with Chris now, smiles. Well, isn't he the lucky one. She walks down the line, stopping in front of Sue. And what about you, Sue? Who's taking you? Tommy Ross. Right (beat; then) Okay. Now my idea for this little trick you pulled was three days' suspension and refusal of your prom tickets. As Collins' words sink in ­ groans of disappointment. Almost seeming o single Sue out as she continues ­ at least that's the way it seems to Sue. That would hit you where you live, now, wouldn't it? And you'd deserve it ­ don't think any of you have any idea of just how nasty what you did was. The office has decided that you're to have one week's detention. The girls sigh with relief. Chris has a particularly smug look. Collins takes in their reactions; then she reels in the line: But. There's one little catch. It's to be my detention. Right here in the gym. Fifty minutes every day. Get the picture? As they realize just how they've been had ­ indeed, getting the picture. Furious, defiant. won't come. No less determined, but cool. That's up to you, Chris. That's up to all of you. Punishment for skipping detention is three days' suspension and the loss of your prom tickets. Any other thoughts? Sober, slightly frightened. She is standing in the hall, looking into the gym through the small glass window cut in the door. Collins has finished with the girls, she stands in front of them, the victor. Right. Now change up. The girls start to turn. Carrie quickly pulls away from the door before she can be seen, hastens away. Collins watches the girls filing into the locker room, a small triumphant smile on her face. Carrie is now far down the hall, a small distant figure. Now she goes out of sight around a corner. The hall is empty and still; then: As the girls change silently into their green gym outfits ­ quiet, subdued, most of them resigned to their punishment. Chris, however, is about to blow up; she tosses her skirt into her locker and slams the door shut. And then another, and another, and yet another flipping by us, one title following another as Carrie looms over the card catalog, searching. The title cards include and ­ on this latter card, it reads: ghost supposed to be responsible for table rappings and other mysterious, noisy disturbances." It also contains a cross-reference ­ see tele ­ and the rest of the word is blurred. Her face ­ curious, deciding to follow it up. As Carrie flips through the card catalog ­ passing everything from Talmud to Tarantula until she gets to: On the word, and below it: `Thought to be the ability to move or to cause changes in objects by force of the mind, perhaps a genetic-recessive in origin.' Her mind struggling with the words on the card, pondering, thoughtful. Her heart starts to beat. On the girls, all of them in the green gym suits, being run ragged, just as Collins promised. She's pushing them extremely hard, barking orders at them, using her whistle like a drill instructor. As she runs to position herself next to Sue. She can't get away with this. I'm going to get her. That goddamn snerd ­ Let it go, Chris. And Sue runs on, leaving Chris ­ red in the face, breathless, furious ­ behind. Chris deliberately slows down and then just halts. The period's not up, Hargensen. It is for me. There are ten minutes left. Stick them up your ass. Chris starts to stalk past Collins who reaches out and firmly pushes her back. Chris becomes immediately hysterical. You can't hit us! You'll get canned for this, you bitch! My father ­ One more word from you and I'll throw you across the room. Want to see if I'm telling the truth? Appealing to the others now; flailing, out of control. She can't get away with this! Goddammit! If we all stick together, we can ­ As Chris looks to them for support, none of them quite knowing what to do. Norma... Helen... Sue! Featuring Chris and Sue (lifeless) Shut up, Chris. Just shut up. mutineer without a single ally now. She realizes it and heads for the door leading to the locker room, and this time, Collins doesn't even try to stop her. At the door: This isn't over. This isn't over by a long shot. The door slams shut, leaving the girls and Collins frozen by Chris's outburst. The gives a shrill and we: The local after-school hangout. Clusters of students milling in and around booths. Pinball machines, a jukebox thumping by Martha Reeves and the Vandellas. Sue is sitting, reading, alone in one of the booths as Chris enters, says hello to some of her clique, and spots her. Hey, Sue! Just who I've been looking for! Sue looks up and tries to force her face into a smile. Chris slides into the booth across from her and thrusts her John Kennedy school yearbook across the table ­ an action which Sue involuntarily jerks away from out of nervousness. (continuing) wanted you to sign my yearbook. Hey, where's you old man, did he stand you up? (busying herself with the yearbook) Still at practice Well, guess you've heard I'm out of the prom. bet that cocksucker Morton loses his job, though. Daddy's suing them. Hey, Billee! Billee! Come over and say hi to Sue. Sue slides the yearbook back across the table to Chris, who examines it: (continuing) Hey, is that it? Just Sue Snell? Billy goons next to Chris, glomming his arm around her neck. Hey, Suze. think we're going anyway, right, Billee? Sure thing, Charlie. Chris playfully jabs him in the ribs. You mean crash? Sure, why not? Hey, listen, I've got a good one. "Roses are red, violets are blue, sugar is sweet, but Carrie White eats shit." Billy, goon that he is, cracks up. Sue finds it not at all funny, but doesn't know exactly what to do about what she's feeling. Chris, I've got to go. new tune comes on the juke ­ Shirley and Company whooping it up on (oblivious, her laughter turning to fury) That goddamn Carrie! If only the rest of you had walked out with me... Jesus, Sue, why didn't you? took the detention because thought we ­ ­ earned it. It was a shitty thing to have done. End of statement. Bullshit! That goddamn snerd and her batshit mother ­ saying we're all going to hell. (rising) What'd she ever do to you, Chris? Or to any of us? Why do you hate her so much? Hey, hey... tell me if I'm wrong, but who was that n there pitching with the rest of us? Me. (it comes out a pinched nerve) Me. But stopped. (dawning on her; getting it finally) Oh. Oh, aren't you just it? Oh, my, yes. (imitating; prissy) You stopped. Hey, Billee, she stopped. Sue is scared now ­ she hears it coming. There's no question about it, though; the rumbles have already begun, and there's no stopping what's coming. (continuing) God, I'm dumb sometimes. Billee, hey, Billee, do you want to know why Suze here didn't walk out? Billy's over by the pinball machines with some of his goon squad. He boastfully struts around ­ much to their obvious delight ­ making the sound of a chicken in reply. Seeing this; feeling it all about to lurch out of control and turn against her. The bottom's falling out. I'll see you around, Chris. Chris prominently ­ a bloodhound now sure of the scent. No. Wait. You stopped, remember? So just stop again. (uglier) Why didn't you walk out? Why didn't you walk out, Sue? Okay, Chris. That's enough. You didn't walk out, Sue... little Suze... little Suzy Creamcheese... because you didn't want to miss a moment of your precious prom. Bulls-eye. Sue fights back the tears and fury, trembling now. But she tries to muster up some dignity. And you don't? (not about to be put off) You're goddamn right, don't. But we're on your case now. (beat) I'll bet you've got your dress all picked out, too. What color is it? Yellowguts? She's about to break, holding it in as best she can. Chris just as quickly as she spots the weakness, shuts it off, bottling up all the rage into he cruelest stainless-steel smile she can muster. (continuing) Okay. (dismissively) See you around, Sue. And that's it ­ shut up, shut down, shut out. Sue turns and starts to walk out of the Cavalier. In the background behind her, it's all out of focus, an incoherent babble of snickering and clucking laughter. She's crossed the line. Sue sits in the bleachers overlooking the field. She is preoccupied, still shaken by the afternoon's confrontation with Chris. The track team is moving past the bleachers (a coach in the field clocking them and shouting orders). Tommy, in his track uniform, peels away from the group and comes running up to Sue. Hi! want to talk to you. Sure, what's up? To avoid the noise of the cheerleaders practicing down in front of them, and the other girls sitting in the bleachers half watching their boyfriends and half eyeing Tommy and Sue, Sue beckons Tommy to follow her away from the group behind the bleachers, and as they walk off together we hear the following: If asked you to do something for me ­ something special ­ would you? (nodding) Uh-huh. No matter how crazy it sounded? Sure. What? The sound is muffled, and we don't hear what she says. But we do hear: (continuing; exploding) Are you out of your mind? big hangout-cruising night on the boulevard. Neon, convertibles, "Rebel Without a Cause" meets "American Graffiti" seventies-style. In other words, the works -- with As a '61 Chevy leaves a sizeable patch of rubber on the street as it to a hard stop, just barely halting before it almost went through a red light and collided with the traffic already in the intersection. which belongs to the aforementioned ­ a character whose life and brains stopped around the time he saw "Rebel" on television. He's Chris's boyfriend, and a huge cross swings around his neck. Right now, he's utterly amused by his harrowing driving, and turns to Chris who ignores him, still brooding over her afternoon losses. Billy takes a huge toke from a joint and hands it to her; she ignores that too, and proceeds to busy herself applying makeup in the visor window. So Billy looks out his window and strikes up some banter with a fellow cruiser idling beside them at the light. The light changes, and Billy peels out ­ an action with throws Chris backwards onto the seat. Goddamnit, Billy! He just laughs as he weaves through traffic. (continuing) Slow down! (as he pays no heed) Slow down, you stupid shit! Scared, Chuckie? No. You'll kill us, you stupid shit! Billy lazily slaps her, speeds up. Don't call me that. Stupid shit. He slaps her again. (continuing; under her breath) Stupid shit. (disgustedly) Oh wow! He slams on the brakes, and pulls into: on a parking lot where cars are parked; a huge pullman's car which has been converted into a restaurant. This after-school hangout is called the Cavalier. As Billy reaches over, very confidently, to draw Chris to him. She lets herself be kissed, then pulls away abruptly. He grabs at her, and she pulls away. What's wrong? Can't you wait a minute? What for? You're so ignorant. That's what you like. Bullshit. No? I'll show you what you like, Chuckie. Grab. No. Jesus. Grab. No! She pushes him away. He grabs her. She pushes; he grabs. struggle. Grabs at her tit. There goes the blouse; the buttons are ripped off. ...How you... gonna... explain that... Dumb shit! He slaps her. What'd tell you? Silence. Then, after some time, he leans over and kisses her. She lets him. He kisses her again, and she responds. He goes at it. And she squirms away. (continuing) Hell is this? want you to do something. What? (eagerly) Yeah, what? want you to do something for me. Something important. (warily) Something important? It will be very important to me. It will make me feel very good if you do it. She moves closer to him. Her hand dips down out of She blows in his ear. Billy is beginning to writhe; he moves in on her, but she holds him off, playing him like a puppet. (continuing) Billy, hate Carrie White. On which we see the opening, helicopter-credit-sequence from "Duel at Diablo." The television is in: Where the movie's continues uninterrupted for a bit over an incredible silence between Tommy and Sue. They are sitting on a couch. The silence is finally broken by a reluctant: Okay. I'll do it. And we: Margaret slowly opens the door to Carrie's room and enters. Light filters in from the street. Carrie is lying in bed, motionless, asleep. Margaret crosses the room quietly. She leans over the bed. On the table next to it is the glow-in-the-dark statue ­ not in its usual place on the dresser. Carrie's face, in the soft light, seems very innocent. (low) Carrie, did you pray? No answer. Margaret bends over Carrie. And with surprising tenderness, she kisses Carrie's forehead. The she straightens up quickly, as though she has violated herself, and leaves the room. Carrie opens her eyes. She pulls a book out from under the covers; then she stares at the Madonna-child figurine, it begins to glow brighter and brighter, illuminating the room. It's bright enough to read by now, and we leave Carrie expanding her education and: As Carrie examines a shelf of books with titles like "Cosmic Consciousness" and Ogilve's "Hidden Powers of the Mind." She decides on the latter just as a voice startles her: Carrie? Ohuh? She stares at him and quickly covers the binding of the book with her hand, covering the title. He looks as startled as she does. How're you doing? (after a beat; almost inaudibly) Okay. It's harder than he thought it would be; just trying to make small talk is agonizing. But try it, he does: thought you had gym this period. All she can do is shake her head. And a young man not easily deterred, he tries again. (continuing) What're you reading? (trying to cover, and not very well) It's about... um.. sewing... Right. Check and stalemate. Which brings him to: Umm... if you don't have a date for the Prom, would you want to go with me? What? The Prom... Without saying a word, Carrie walks down the aisle of book shelves. He follows her into the main room where students are reading, working. (continuing) ...It's next Friday, and know this is later notice, but they stop selling tickets soon, and ­ The bell don't like to be tricked. couple of students stare at Tommy talking to Carrie as they start leaving the library. Carrie... But it's too late ­ she's gone, already out the door. As Tommy weaves through the crowd after her. Gangly spots him: Hey, Ross! But Tommy ignores him in his singular pursuit. Hey, Carrie! Wait! couple of other students watch this ­ is this their Tommy Ross actually trying to speak with Carrie? But he's oblivious of any looks now, any snickering ­ all he wants is to catch up with Carrie. Which he does; he manages to touch her arm, and it's a weird moment, this contact. She turns around, her head painfully ducked down. (continuing) Hey, it's no big deal. And she looks up and stares at him with that peculiar intensity that cuts through all the clamor around them. Quiet, quietly: Do you people think you can just go on tricking me forever? beat. Tommy stands there helpless, sensing just how much of a big deal it is. Seeing that she's on the verge of tears, he's feeling even worse, and all he can say is: Sorry. But it's too little, and too late. She's crying. And what's more, she's gone ­ swallowed up into the clamor of students rushing to beat the bell. Which as we: As Collins tidies up after one of the classes ­ throwing towels into huge cans, etc. Only to hear a mewing, whimpering sound and come upon Carrie who's huddled in one of the dark corners of the room, crying. It's almost as if she created her own closet of space. Carrie? (on no response) Carrie, what's the matter? (on still no response) Was it one of the girls? Did one of the girls do something to you? Do you want a Kleenex? No. It's all right. Just tell me, there's nothing to be afraid of. Miss Collins... That's it... When can come back to gym? Not until Monday. Now what is it? Are you going to tell me? Come on, Carrie, tell me. got asked to the prom. That's great! Tommy Ross asked me. Tommy Ross ­ that's wonderful. He's cute. know who he goes around with. They're trying to trick me again. know. Maybe he really meant it. mean, maybe he really did mean it. Maybe you should think about it. It might be really fun. You might have a really good time! It would be a nightmare. C'mon, Carrie. You should have a better image of yourself. You just think you're unattractive, but look at your hair. It's really beautiful. If you just fixed it up a little... here, I'll show you. where Collins and Morton are grabbing a quick cup of coffee. Carrie's been asked to the prom. Who? Carrie White. By whom? The Beak? By Tommy Ross. Morton goes into a coughing fit, accidentally knocking over his coffee in the process. Collins watches, slightly amused by his reaction. When he recovers: What about his girlfriend? Doesn't he date the little Snell girl? think she put him up to it. Where Collins is grilling a very nervous Sue ­ just Sue so far. Who's brainstorm was this? (no response) What are you trying to do? You've got it wrong. hope so. wouldn't have expected this from you, Sue. Not any of it. Well? What do you want to know? Why Tommy asked her to the prom. (after a beat) Well? (reluctant; able to go this far) asked him to. Why? (swallowing) asked him to. But, in God's name, what for? What could you possibly have in mind? Who's also in the office for this interrogation ­ ill at ease, trying to appear cool. You mean what good would it do? Maybe it'll... bring her out of... make her a... part of things? Oh, come on, Sue. None of us are that stupid. And neither is Carrie. Maybe not. And you're not going to go? You're going to stay home and miss your senior prom? Just as this point, ­ a prissy little pleaser with a mouth whose verbal discretion could make the telephone obsolete ­ enters the room with a sheaf of attendance sheets for the next week. All conversation ceases. (continuing) Yes, Norma? What is it? Just the attendance sheets, Miss Collins. Just leave them on the desk. (to Sue) You understand, you can't come without a date? Sue understands perfectly well, but with Norma there, she's not about to say a word. And Collins finally picks up on this: (continuing) Is there something else, Norma? (butter could melt) No, Miss Collins. And she exits as slowly as she can ­ trying to hear the last possible word. Then: (to Tommy) Which brings us to you. Miss Collins, have to get to practice. That's too bad. Look, this is between Sue and me. If you don't mind... Oh, but do. Or would you rather we continue this discussion in Mr. Morton's office? (bluffed; then off-handedly ­ like we first saw him in Fromm's class) What's the big deal? Because it's a very big deal for Carrie White. And you know it. Anyway, she's already said no. You can make her change her mind. Don't overrate me. Just don't try. Okay. It's not okay. (to Collins) You can't order anyone not to take someone to the prom. can make sure you don't hurt Carrie. We're not trying to hurt her. We're trying to help her. How? Silence. (continuing) Tommy, when you come to the prom with Carrie White, don't you think you'll look a little ridiculous? Well... We don't care how we look. Sue looks over at Tommy. (continuing) Do we? Tommy says nothing; he's caught between a rock and a hard place. As Tommy's Volkswagen parks across the street, Tommy gets out and approaches the White house. Carrie is inside, watching him come up the stairs. She remains on the hall side of the screen door. So this is where you live. What... what're you doing here? (laughs) Aren't you going to ask me in? She shakes her head; he laughs again, a little nervously. Throughout this scene in which he remains on the porch side of the screen door, he catches glimpses of the weird house within. (continuing) Why not? Momma's resting. What do you want? Right to the point, huh? Okay, about the prom. already told you. (a little charm) Nothing to stop you changing your mind. Girls do it all the time. Why are you doing this? Hey, I'm asking you because want to. No. Look, don't do anything don't want to. can't. Sure you can. In the background ­ in the kitchen, perhaps ­ Margaret calls out Carrie's name. Carrie glances nervously behind her; then back at Tommy. You better go. Carrie! Who are you talking to? Don't you think you better answer? No one, Momma. You're going with me. can't. You're going. They'll laugh. No one will laugh. We'll see to it. Please. Please go. Not `til you say yes. Carrie swipes at her eyes with the back of her hand; helpless, honest, confused. She'd really like to go at this point, but that extra sense in her is resisting. Why? Why is it so important to you? don't know. Maybe it's because you liked my poem. (o.s.) Carietta!!! And in just these split seconds, she decides; had he not "liked" her poem, had Margaret not called, perhaps she could have held back. Yes. (beat) Okay. I'll pick you up at eight. (whispering) Fine. (then) Thank you. Tommy smiles at her and, turning to leave, touches her hand against the screen door. goodbye, nothing more. He goes down the walk toward his car. Watching him. She takes the hand he "touched" and brushes the hair back from her face. little beautiful? You bet. Carrie? Did you hear me? Coming, Momma. Coming. And as she turns away from the door, we: Why not? Why did you do it? God, everyone's talking. We to see the gym. The entire back wall has been devoted to a giant mural of stars and planets ­ it seems the prom is to have a celestial theme, and the gymnasium is in the process of being hung with a great deal of crepe paper, moons, etc. asked Tommy to take Carrie. thought owed her that much. Where does that put the rest of us? You have to make up your own mind. And Tommy went along with it? Uh-huh. (pauses) guess the other kids think I'm stuck-up. Well... they're all talking about it. But most of them still think you're okay. as thick as thieves, off in the corner, whispering. There is... (giggles) ...a small dissenting faction. guess she's having a field day with this. Susie, she hates your guts. Sue nods ­ she knew it, now she hears it. of thee bungalow the The lights are on downstairs; there's a slight drizzle and haze. then: As Carrie and Margaret finish dinner. Silence ­ punctuated only by the slight outside and occasional flashes of and lightning. Then: You haven't touched your pie, Carrie. It makes me have pimples, Momma. Your pimples are the Lord's way of chastising you. Momma? Yes? Momma, please see that have to start to get... to try and get along with people. Whatever are you going on about? Have you been showering with the other girls again? I've been invited to the prom. (a foreign language) Prom? It's next Friday, and ­ It's that teacher, the one that called. She'll be sorry. Momma, please see that I'm not like you. I'm funny, mean, the kids think I'm funny. don't want to be. want to try and be a whole person before it's too late to ­ Margaret throws her cup of tea in Carrie's face. It's cold, wet, sticky. But Carrie holds herself in, she's going to be in charge this time. She takes a deep swallow and continues: (continuing) His name is Tommy Ross, and he's a very nice boy. He's ­ No! -- promised to stop in and meet you before, and ­ (overlapping) -- said no! -- have me in by midnight. I've ­ (shaking her head now; uncontrollable) No, no, no ­ -- accepted. Pause. Margaret's shaking with fury, trembling. Carrie wipes the stringy wet hair from her forehead. (continuing) I've accepted, Momma. have accepted. The closet. No. After all you've been taught ­ Everyone isn't bad, Momma, everything isn't sinful. Go to your closet and pray. Ask to be forgiven! You'll like this boy, he.... And Margaret at this word shifts gears and winds up ­ in the grip of a weird babble. Boys. Yes, boys come next. After the blood, the boys come. Like sniffing dogs... Momma ­ ...grinning and slobbering, trying to find out where the smell comes from, where the smell is. That... smell! Please stop... Yes, in cars. Yes. know where they take you in their cars. Roadhouses. Music. Whiskey. I've seen it, all right. Oh, yes. Momma, you better stop. You're not going. I've already said would, Momma. Then say no. Say no. Or we'll move. No. We'll move from here and you'll never see that boy again. gust of wind causes the window to blow open. Margaret gets up and starts toward the window. Carrie is silent, watching herself being shut out. (continuing) The rain's coming in. Momma, sit down. I'm going to close the windows. I'll get them. Please sit and talk to me. No. Margaret continues toward the kitchen window to close it. Carrie knits her brow, and flex, the window closes. Margaret whips around, facing Carrie. I'm going, Momma. And things are going to change around here. Flex. The of a window shutting in another room. Witch! Flex. Another window. (continuing) It's Satan's power. First he entered your father, carried him off... He ran away, Momma. Everyone knows that. Flex. couple of windows. The devil tempted him. He ran away with a woman, Momma. All men are the same. That boy, he's like all the rest, he doesn't ­ Flex. The rest of the windows in the house shut. don't care. He asked me to go. And I'm going. I'm going, Momma. You can't stop me. Leading to Henty's farm. slight drizzle; or, the ground is still wet. little more than a crescent moon silhouettes a group of five: Billy and Chris in front, and Billy's twitchy zoo ­ a completely wrecked a very nervous and an occasionally giggling, goggled ­ trailing behind. De Lois is swinging a nine-pound sledge-hammer in the air; the other two goons are struggling with an ice-chest and steel pails. Henty's farmhouse and barn are in the distance. Hell of a risk for a joke. Trennant giggles inanely. Billy stops and glares at De Lois. You want out? (hastily) No, uh-uh. (then) It's a good joke, Billy. Trennant giggles again. Garson is stoned silly ­ zonked, deadpan. He greedily sucks the last remnants of a joint into oblivion before our eyes. De Lois angrily snatches the roach out of Garson's fingers. (continuing) Hey, piggie... Trennant just giggles inanely. Another long beat, then: (continuing) You sure Old Man Henty won't be around? told you. He's at a funeral. Trennant explodes into a fit of high-pitched laughter. Shut up, Henry. Whose funeral did he go to? His mother's. His mother's? Jesus Christ, she musta been older than God! Trennant lurches into another cackle. And in spite of themselves, Billy and Chris start laughing, too. Even De Lois starts laughing. The group passes a "No Trespassing" sign, prompting: (continuing) The bastard is going to shit where he stands when he comes back and gets a look. Garson drops one of the pails on the ground. Asshole. The sound of Trennant's high-pitched giggle. And the harmonic chanting of De Lois, Trennant and Garson: Soo-ee, soo-ee Pig-pig-pig... Soo-ee, soo-ee Pig-pig-pig... And an old sleeping boar and two sows are The face of five ­ on De Lois. Doan worry, piggies, doan worry. I'm gonna bash your fuckin' heads in, and you woan have to worry `bout the bomb no more. Shut up and do it already. will, will. I'm not gonna give `em time to burp. The throat. But it's too late. De Lois has lost all conviction. can't. (then) You. He hands the sledge hammer to Billy. Chris, chilled to the bone, rubs herself to keep warm. Do it, Billy. Billy touches the ball of his thumb to the edge of the sledge hammer. (continuing) Do it quick. And Billy smiles. Yes, he actually smiles. As he raises the sledge hammer, we The sun is shining ­ perhaps the next day, a day later. The house is a picture postcard ­ under it, we hear the sweet, muffled sound of "Amazing Grace." It's just loud enough for us to hear it ­ joyous, triumphant. Margaret sits beneath the plaster crucifix. The sampler, however, sits in her lap ­ unfinished, unminded. She's virtually catatonic. "Amazing Grace" ­ a sweet, contemporary rendition ­ is on the Webcor. pleasure after Kathryn Kuhlman. Carrie sits at the sewing machine, finishing work on the pattern for her prom dress. She removes the material from the sewing machine, which we now see is a lush crushed velvet. Red. might have known it would be red. The cuckoo clock is Carrie stares at Margaret, then turns the sewing machine off. She looks back at Margaret, then turns her attention to the machine, her eyes sparkling. Courtesy of Carrie, the treadle on the machine depresses itself. The needle starts to bob up and down, up and down, up and down... jerking. The side wheel spins. And then stops. (softly) Only clearing the thread, Momma. She smiles. Then rises and goes to start up the stairs to her room. Margaret looks after her. Hate. And fear. (abruptly) It's Satan. Carrie pauses. (wearily; pitying) Oh, momma. He has given you a power. Momma, it doesn't have anything to do with Satan. It's me. If concentrate hard enough, can make things move. Satan is clever. Momma, there are other people... people with the power... It's a part of me. Satan... If it were, I'd know it. You poor child. He doesn't let you know he's working through you. Momma, I'd know. You are to renounce this power. You must give it up. You must never use it. I'm going to do my homework, Momma. Another step up the stairs, stopping as Margaret hurls after her. There's going to be a judgement! There's nothing more to say. Carrie walks up to the stairs, and we: Very dark, shadowy, deserted. The night before the prom. Silence, then a sound of a: Being jimmied open. Behind the thick glass, we see a face ­ just whose isn't clear yet. The slip-lock comes free, the sill is being pushed up, and Billy's head appears. Chris is right behind him. As a flashlight is shined upwards ­ at the criss-crossing girders sheathed in crepe paper; at banks of lights which will later be used to shine down and highlight two areas in particular ­ the huge wall mural and the chalked-in spot where the King and Queen of the Prom will be crowned. right behind them as they proceed toward the stage area ­ past the numerous tables set up for the prom-goers, past the twin bandstands. Billy is carrying the ice chest, Chris the flashlight. As they arrive behind the stage. Billy puts the chest down and takes out a pair of Playtex rubber gloves, snaps them on. Then he takes out two small pulleys and a coil of twine. Looking somewhat like a bizarre mountaineer, climbing a ladder which takes him up to a narrow platform overlooking the stage area. Shining the flashlight to guide Billy, her face flushed with excitement. As he disappears behind a short draw curtain which obscures the girders over the stage. unable to see him, suddenly feeling very alone. What's it like up there? (no response) Billee? (no answer; genuinely scared) Billy! And just at that moment, a piece of crepe paper floats into the and lands in Chris's hair. She jumps, utterly unnerved. She looks up to see Billy staring down at her from the platform, grinning. Boo. You stupid shit. (still in good humor) Nice talk. Hurry up. Do you hear me, just hurry up. (blackface) Yes'um. Yes'um. Weeze doing the best we can. want to go home. Just keep your tits on and I'll let you pull it when the time comes. plan to. between the final arrangements for the prom itself and Carrie's preparations as the night approaches. The emphasis is on these two paralleling elements, although this montage ­ scored throughout with happier and happier ­ will also feature some of our lesser characters. Among other things, we will see: ­ as last-minute arrangements are made ­ more crepe paper hung, party favors put on tables, etc.; ­ in a town store as she shops for makeup; ­ under a hair dryer, her mouth going a mile a minute as a manicurist does her nails and looks utterly exhausted; ­ picking out Carrie's corsage at the florist; ­ at the sewing machine, finishing her dress (which we still don't see), a happy look on her face; ­ as a bank of lights suddenly illuminate the mural on the stage wall; ­ having dinner with her parents ­ in front of their dressing tables; both of them putting on enormous fake eyelashes simultaneously; ­ the class president ­ making sure the microphone on the stage works; ­ among them, The Beak, setting up; practicing her fabulous twirling baton act; ­ which opens to reveal the twins in their high heels, both of them several inches taller than their depressed-looking dates; ­ he in his tuxedo, she in her prom dress; a flash as Freida's parents take a Polaroid of this night to remember; ­ with the adult chaperones ­ teachers, administrators ­ standing around, looking for something to do. It is now the night of the Prom ­ just minutes before it officially begins, we end this montage and: Carrie sits in front of that same mirror, but this time, there's a different attitude. And a different girl, which pleases her. She looks different, very different, from before. She's dressed in her lush red crushed velvet prom dress, but the is in such a way that we don't see it. In any case, it is not prim. She is wearing some makeup. She looks... well, there has been a transformation. In the background, the door is opened by Margaret. Come in, Momma. Margaret advances into the room. Carrie opens a florist box and takes out a lovely corsage of tiny tea roses. Do you want to pin it on, Momma? can see your dirtypillows. Everyone will. Breasts, Momma, breasts. Every woman has them. Carrie's voice is calm; nothing, not even Margaret, will spoil tonight, and ever so slightly, this scene ­ and all that follow for a considerable period of time ­ has an edge of unreality to it. It's all been diffused a bit ­ a fairy tale through Carrie's eyes. What would look bad or tacky looks acceptable; what looked good before now looks spectacular. Take off that dress. No. We'll burn it together, we'll pray for forgiveness. No, Momma. The Black Forest sings out downstairs. It's eight o'clock. He's not coming. Stop it, Momma. I'm nervous enough. Margaret reaches up and pinches her cheek hard, leaving a red mark. She looks toward Carrie. Carrie is pinning the tea roses on herself. Margaret hooks her right hand into a claw, rips at her cheek, leaving a thin line of blood. Stop hurting yourself, Momma. That's not going to stop me either. Margaret strikes herself in the mouth with her fist. Go away, Momma. You know I'm right. He'll laugh at you. They'll all laugh at you. No. It'll be okay. Bur she's rattled, and nervously starts moving around a series of objects in the room. Cosmetics on the bureau, the florist box, the glow-in-the-dark statue. But it's sheer will at this point. It's after eight, and there's no sign of Tommy. It's not too late. You can stay here with me. No. I'll answer the door and say you're sick, I'll say ­ Momma, sit on the bed. Flex. Margaret is pushed back on the bed. Horrified, she rises again. I'll say that you changed your mind, I'll say ­ Flex. Margaret is thrust back on the bed. `Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.' The words stop. But Margaret's eyes are fixed on Carrie, as Carrie leans toward her. Carrie's voice is soft and compassionate. You'll say nothing, Momma. You are going to have to learn that I'm not like you, not anymore. The downstairs sounds. Carrie goes to her window and sees: at the front door, the overhead light shining on his hair, making it glisten. He looks very handsome. She goes back to the bed and picks up her wrap; then, to Margaret: I'll be home early, Momma. The downstairs sounds again. There's going to be a judgement! Momma, you will be quiet until I'm gone. (beat; then, at the door) love you, Momma. And she's gone, down the Carrie who opens the door. Well, we know he's beautiful. And he's looking at Carrie. He didn't know: He didn't know she could be beautiful. And she is. He reaches out his hand. Hi. Carrie takes his hand. Hand in hand, Carrie and Tommy walk down the path toward his car. They are observed by: at the window of Carrie's room. Margaret leaves the window as we Tommy's car drive off. She goes out of the room. Down the stairs, through the dining room, into the kitchen. Almost the same path that Carrie trod, but trod so differently. While Carrie's pace had been light, nervously expectant, Margaret's is slow and heavy. Margaret crosses to one of the drawers. She reaches in and takes out a long carving knife; it gleams in the light. The school gymnasium is lit up brightly for the Prom; cars are pulling in, among them, Tommy's Ford. as Tommy turns off the ignition. Carrie's staring at the other couples getting out of their cars. Tommy watches her taking it all in. It's like a dream. You can still change your mind, you know. She turns to him and realizes he's teasing her. Easier said than done. (grinning) C'mon. No. Please ­ not yet. Scared? Yes. (beat) Can we sit here another minute? Tommy laughs and nods. moment of silence. Carrie is miserable ­ she's happy to be with Tommy, she's trying to have a good time, but it's hard. It's like getting up to dance the first time. Perhaps it would be better to sit this one out. Tommy... (and then out it comes) Maybe... maybe this was a mistake. Hey, it won't be so bad. She tries to smile at him. It's not very persuasive. Really, mean it. They're okay, you'll see. (beat; she's trying to believe him) Don't be nervous. Besides... (a little self-mocking) I'd look awfully silly dancing by myself. And that's just enough ­ he's taken her mind off her own fear just enough to make her laugh. where the prom is already under way, the band an energetic version of "Harlem Nocturne." From Carrie's it's all magic ­ explosions of pastel color, everyone looking like they stepped out of an advertisement for happiness. Carrie just stands at the double-doors which are the main entrance to the gym, taking it all in as Tommy hands their tickets to ushers at the door. As Carrie stares at the giant mural on the stage wall ­ full of celestial moon, stars and rockets ­ a bellows out behind her. Hey, Ross. Gawd, you look queer. The source of the salutation and Tommy's best friend. He bounds wearing a T-shirt with a painted black tie under his dinner jacket. His girlfriend, Frieda Jason, tags behind. When did you come out of the treetops, Bomba? Ross, if I'd known you were going to look this good, I'd have asked you instead of Frieda. The two boys immediately go into a mock fight. Frieda comes up to Carrie. Don't let it bother you. If they destroy each other, I'll dance with you. Carrie smiles back at her nervously; there's an awkward silence. Hey, where'd you buy your dress? love it. (shyly) made it. (unaffected surprise) Made it? No shit. Carrie hesitates; realizes Frieda is quite sincere. No shit. Frieda laughs; so does Carrie, and the tension eases up. Behind them, Tommy keeps one eye on Carrie. He shrugs ­ it's working, goddammit ­ and he stuffs his hands into his dinner jacket. Carrie and Frieda, Tommy and George right behind them, head for their tables. The mural's nice. Yes. (confiding) I'm really nervous. S'okay. We're sitting together. And she takes Carrie's arm. Norma Watson rushes over to them ­ all breathy taffeta and green chiffon. Carrie! (looking her up and down) That's a lovely dress, Carrie. Wherever did you get it? made it. Well, of course you did. can't get over it, you look so different. You're positively glowing. What's your secret? I'm Don MacLean's secret lover. (a half-beat late, getting it, tittering) Don MacLean's secret... How funny you are. (cutting her) Why, hello Tommy. Aren't you excited? Cold sweat is running down my thighs in rivers. (smile slipping a full notch now) Well, have to hurry back. Stan'll think got lost. (King Kong; right on top of her) Bom-ba! (tittering, moving away smack into Frieda) And, Frieda, don't you look nice. (toothpaste smile) Get douched, Norma. As the prom gets underway: ­ ­ make like Lawrence Welk and launch into an oldie-but-goodie. On drums ­ The Beak himself. ­ ­ dressed identically, dancing with the black class president, is wonderfully officious as he gets the evening's first entertainment organized. It (or she) is ­ and her fabulous twirling baton act, a phenomenon to the lilting of "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head." is off in a corner, bending another girl's ear; is standing idly by, pretending to be invisible. and the other chaperones including look for something to do, for someone who's stepping out of line. And find it. In the person of who's guzzling the punch. and sit at their table next to and Tommy lights a candle. As Josie and the Moonglows launch into a new George suddenly comes to life. Viiibes! He grabs Frieda, and they make their way out onto the dance floor, Frieda shrugging helplessly at Carrie. They're nice. George is funny. He's a good guy. (beat) See, didn't tell you? (beat) Sure you don't want to dance? Could we just sit here for a minute? Tommy nods ­ it's okay with him. Carrie? Carrie turns around and finds herself facing Collins ­ dressed up, looking more like one of the students than a teacher. You look very pretty, Miss Collins. Thank you (beat) You too. Beautiful. It's awfully nice of you to say so. know I'm not... not really... but thank you anyway. Tommy ­ feeling like a fifth wheel ­ clears his throat and stands up. `scuse me. (to Carrie) Be right back, okay? He goes off into the crowd. (gesturing to his seat) May Carrie nods, and she sits down, pulling the chair next to her. They're virtually alone at this moment; everyone else is dancing or occupied. Carrie, anything that happened before... well, it's all forgotten. want you to know that. can't forget it. (beat) But it's over with. It's over. Collins smiles; she looks at the dance floor and Carrie's eyes follow hers. At this particular moment, the band is a quiet number ­ slow, romantic. remember my own prom. was two inches taller than the boy went with when was in my heels. He gave me a corsage that clashed with my gown. But it was magic. don't know why. But I've never had a date like it, ever since. Is it like that for you? It's very... nice. (smiling) Just nice? No. There's more. don't know... (hesitating; then) ...it's like being on Mars. You'll never forget it. think you're right. And then, on sheer impulse, Carrie reaches out and hugs her, hugs her tightly. Thank you. Have a lovely time, Carrie. (o.s.) Hey, what's going on here? There is Tommy, looking "stern." (to Collins) What are you doing with my date? Girl secrets. smile at Carrie, and she goes off. Don't let me catch you hugging any guys. You won't. Better not. Hey, listen, do you really have to be back so early? promised. Okay. understand. I'm sorry. No, it's okay. Listen, the other kids are going over to Lewiston after the Prom ­ (breaking in) That's okay. What is? You want to go with your friends. don't want to spoil anything... Hey, let me finish. What was going to say, mean if it'd be alright with you, what do you say we go to the Cavalier? (surprised; she'd love to) I've never been there. Hey, great. We'll have the place all to ourselves. Great! (he means it) Then it's settled. He takes her arm, turns her toward the dance floor. (holding back) Tommy... C'mon... don't... can't... You can. He has his arms around her and half-spins, half tugs her out onto the floor. He is a young man of considerable confidence ­ the best part of his popularity ­ and it's a contagious trait. Gradually, Carrie gets caught up in the slow dancing, begins to follow him less and less awkwardly, begins to get less and less self-conscious, and, in short, starts to glide into her freedom. Tommy and Carrie dance into this corner; Carrie is a bit breathless and very happy. For some moments, Tommy keeps his arms around Carrie, looking at her. And then he leans forward, about to kiss her, impulsively. And impulsively and instinctively, she draws back. And is immediately embarrassed. Hey... I'm sorry. It's just... No harm, no foul. They stand there for a couple of seconds. And suddenly and swiftly, Carrie kisses Tommy. It's a quick, awkward, frightened kiss. bird peck. And again they stand there, until: don't know... anything. can't dance... You danced. don't even know how to... It's easy. And he kisses her. She breaks, looking up at him. Tommy... why? Why what? Why am here? It's the prom. With you. Because asked you. And... Why? Why did you? Because wanted to. Why? Because... He pauses; he's on the edge. And steps back. ...you liked my poem. Only didn't write it. Someone else did. Oh. She's puzzled. And she's about to ask something else. (quickly) Look, Carrie, we're here, we're together... and like it, you know... mean, But... commotion from the floor. Tommy turns. Hey, look! Carrie looks off, following his glance, at: As the head Custodian supervises the sliding of two thrones from the wings onto pre-set marks on the stage apron. They're sheathed in white ­ strewn with crepe papers and flowers to match the prom's celestial theme. (uneasily) It's a fairy tale. (beaming; taking her arm) C'mon. He starts to lead her towards their table while: Sue Snell ­ unable to contain her curiosity about how all this has worked out ­ pulls up in one of her parents' cars, parks, and deliberates coming in. The lights of the gymnasium are glowing. While inside: Class president Ernest Peterson makes his way to the microphone. He takes all this quite seriously. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Take your seats, please ­ it's time for the voting. This contest is an insult to women! couple of scattered It insults men, too! Louder foot (over the noise) Please take your seats. It's time to vote for the King and Queen. Several ushers go up and down the aisles, passing out ballots. as Norma Watson haughtily drops a ballot on their table in front of Tommy, another in front of George. Carrie examines the paper. Tommy... (looking up to see him smiling at her) ...we're on here! know. (seeing her concern) Want to decline? Do you want to? Hell, no. If you win, all you do is sit up there for the school song and one dance. And they put your picture in the yearbook so everyone can see we looked like idiots. Besides, it's the last year. Carrie looks up at the stage ­ at the massive thrones all in white. They're beautiful. You're beautiful. Carrie meets his eyes and blushes; it's all overwhelming her, and she has to look away ­ at the tiny party favor boat on the table in front of her, at the tiny pencil next to it. Who do we vote for? They're more your crowd than mine. Whatever you like. In fact, don't really have a crowd. Let's vote for ourselves. To the devil with false modesty. She laughs aloud ­ the sound of her own laughter is so foreign to her that she claps a hand over her mouth, at her own daring. She takes the pencil and quickly circles their names ­ so quickly that the pencil breaks, bringing a small drop of blood to her finger. She gasps. Hurt yourself? No. (trying to smile) But broke it and it was a souvenir. There's still your boat. (he pushes it gently toward her) Toot, toot. as Sue ­ hardly in formal attire ­ stares through the same small window in the gym door that Carrie stared through earlier ­ she stares inside as: The ballots are being counted, Morton and Fish helping Ernest separate them into piles. We ought to notice either De Lois or Trennant hanging around the voting tables ­ perhaps Norma Watson as well. Carrie is holding Tommy's hand tightly ­ too tightly. Hey, hey. Sorry. Don't know your own strength. Whew. He sees she's taking him seriously. Sensitive to her reaction, he smiles at her. Hey, it's okay. In the background Josie and the Moonglows provide a flourish of drums. as Ernest walks up to the microphone and almost drops the ballots in the process. We've sort of hit a snag. Mr. Morton says this is the first time in the history of the Spring Prom that ­ How far does he go back? 1800? We've got a tie. Polka-dot or striped? Sixty-three votes for Frank Grier and Cora Wilson, and sixty-three votes for Tommy Ross and Carrie White. Silence, then the begins and starts to swell as we... 200 TOMMY's ­ An island in the around her, her head lowered... Watching her intently, his mouth slightly open... Vainly trying to speak over the Attention! If could have your attention, please... Tommy still staring at her. (o.s.) We're going to have a run-off ballot. When you get yours, please write the couple you favor on it. Slowly looking up, seeing Tommy. They're not applauding for us. It can't be for us. Maybe it's for you. Just exactly where they are isn't clear yet, nor should it be. But we do hear the Prom noises. thought you said they'd win. They will. They will. Won't even be close. If you screwed up... Don't worry. called in a few favors. The black cuckoo clock ­ as Margaret, mumbling to herself, with the fixated attention of the damned, continues to scrub a sliver of whetstone along the gleaming edge of the knife's blade. as new ballots arrive courtesy of Norma, who leans over them and whispers breathily: Good luck! As Tommy picks up the pencil, Carrie puts her hand on his. Don't. What? Don't vote for us. In for a penny, in for a pound. That's what my grandmother used to say. (swallowing) Don't. Please. Tommy hesitates for a second, seeing her face so full of premonition. Then he overcomes it, and scrawls their names on the slip of paper, folding it. For you. He hands it to Norma Watson, and it's off ­ spirited away, gone. Tonight you go first-class. Carrie stares at the receding figure of Norma as if she were the messenger of doom. Where we get a sense of exactly what Chris meant by favors as De Lois, Trennant, and a once again completely wrecked Kenny Garson plus Norma bring over more ballots. It's not exactly what one would call an honest ballot. as Sue manages to slip by Fromm, who's still lazily monitoring the door. She starts heading for the backstage area, trying to be as unobtrusive as possible. At the voting table, she spies Sue coming in, and finding it irresistible, blurts out the news, whispering to: Who's just finishing the ballot counting. He looks in the direction that Norma's pointing in, seeing: Going backstage, heading into the wings to watch: as Ernest returns to the microphone. The plays another Ernest sees this as his big moment; he almost drops the ballots. He pauses for a moment, surveying the gym floor and the anxious prom-goers. An actors savoring the tension. Then he smiles, white teeth grinning: Tommy and Carrie win. By one vote. Begin Silence. Everything a half-beat exaggerated, slowed. Carrie gasps inwardly; the candle in front of her blows out. Tommy grins, amused. He shrugs his shoulders at Carrie. And the applause begins ­ some of it, most of it, genuine, but some of it mocking too. The band launches into a rock version of "Pomp and Circumstance." Ushers appear at Tommy and Carrie's table. George is pounding Tommy's back. An aluminum foil scepter is thrust into Tommy's hand; a robe with a fur collar is thrust over Carrie's shoulders. Peering out farther to get a good look. Unseen at first by her, there's a cord on the edge of the Blocked by the clamor of the students, he's unable to make a straight bee-line for Sue in the wings. So he takes the long way around ­ back behind the stage... Dollying as they're led down the center aisle; past a blur of smiling faces, the They're being led toward the stage area ­ the thrones waiting for them. The lights get brighter; the gets louder. As they pass by. The Beak winds conspiratorially at Carrie. as Tommy gives Carrie his hand, helping her up the steps, over tangles of black power cables. Where we finally reveal just where Chris and Billy have been hiding all this time. Chris listens to the footsteps (of Carrie and Tommy) coming overhead; grasping the cord that Billy has hooked up, holding it very tightly... as they're helped into the massive thrones; behind them is the huge mural of stars and ships. the showman now, Barnum in all of his expansiveness. In the wings, watching this action. In the corner of the the cord we glimpsed earlier ­ the same one which Chris clutched beneath the stage ­ jiggles, and Sue notices it move. She traces its path with her eyes, seeing that it goes up to: Concealing a single silver bucket; meanwhile: Staring down at the gym floor; the lights are searing ­ so hot and bright that it's impossible to see clearly, and a new set of spotlights being shone on Tommy and her only makes it harder. as a piece of crepe paper lands in her hair... sea of faces, the spectrum of reactions. spreading his arms; a politician. Ladies and gentlemen, give you he King and Queen of the Spring Prom ­ The Band starts playing the school and we... The implications of the cord and bucket positioned over the throne just starting to dawn on her as everyone begins singing the school song: (o.s.) All rise for the John Kennedy Hiyyyyh... And a hand comes into clutching Sue's wrist. It belongs to: What're you doing here, young lady? (trying to head for cord under stage) Something's wrong! (o.s.) We'll raise your banner to the skyyyyh... But Morton has no interest in what Sue is trying to tell him: I'll say there is. From the throne, she sees Sue ­ and Morton and he pulls her toward the back exit. Chris is almost hyperventilating as the school song continues. What's the matter with you? Pull it! Chris is frozen ­ immobilized, terrified. As Morton firmly pushes Sue out the rear gym door. The door shuts, and as it closes: Confused, wondering what's happening in the glare of lights and noise... locked out by Morton, trying to get back in. The door won't open. She debates going to try another door. as the song reaches its crescendo: (o.s.) With pride we wear the red and whyyyte... (leering) It can stay there until hell freezes over, Chuckie. Chris shudders involuntarily at the mention of this nickname. She violently jerks the cord with both hands, yanking it. sound ­ half-scream, half-moan ­ comes from her mouth, overlapping into: high above the stage, slowly tipping over, the blood pouring from it. almost proscenium-like in this from all the way in the back of the gym. Carrie and Tommy sit on their huge thrones as the buckets above them deposit their contents on top of them. The blood splashing down... Some of it splattering on the celestial cyclorama, running downward, streaking... As more blood splatters them in their white dinner jackets, the halting. End Tommy and Carrie, drenched with blood. Preparing to leave now that their mission has been accomplished, just about to crawl out as they spot: realizing they'll have to stay put ­ trapped now. (panicky) Billee!!! (nervous too, hissing) Shut up! They crawl back under the stage, out of sight. As the singing stops, the students staring at the stage. Her eyes tightly clenched shut, looking as if she's been dipped in a bucket of red paint. She's gotten the worst of it. dangling on the pulleys over the throne, clanging back and forth. high-pitched Splattered with blood. Below them, the sounds of hysteria begin ("My God, that's blood!") Tommy starts toward Carrie just as: As the bucket falls and hits Tommy on the head; it knocks him unconscious, and he slumps to the floor. Watching this in pure horror. She starts to giggle uncontrollably, the kind of hysterical laugh that comes out of pure terror. It overlaps onto: As the hysteria begins to spread. as she starts toward the unconscious Tommy. as more of them start laughing... the sound of it becoming contagious. hearing the dreaded laughter. Through the harsh glare of the lights ­ laughing, pointing (see Norma Watson), doubling up in hysteria, utterly out of control. Laughing... reacting to their "success." Putting her hands to her blood-covered face, slowly getting to her feet. As Carrie makes her way to the stairs, tripping over the black power cords. horrified Collins is on her way up the stairs. Oh, Carrie ­ let me help you. Carrie hesitates at the sight of the teacher. But it's too late for help, and in the fastest flex we've seen to date, she jerks her head and Collins bounces backward ­ down the stairs, slamming into a wall. Laughing harder now, unable to stop. Where all is pandemonium. Morton makes his way to Collins, giving her his handkerchief; she has a bloody nose. (to Morton) Call the police! Tears streaming down her face, the blood streaking, as she takes in the sight of her tormentors. Helen Shyres is still laughing so hard that she's about to throw up or go into shock. George Dawson has climbed on the stage and is hunched over the slumped figure of Tommy Ross, examining him. Call a doctor! Hey, call a doctor, quick! He tries to pick Tommy up, and in the process the throne topples over on the stage. Frantic, rushing back into the school and down the hall toward the prom doors. Takes a deep breath, mustering her energy. She closes her eyes and sees: All of them open, a few students milling around them as... Closes her eyes even tighter and flexes. And ­ in slam shut. In the process, several things are accomplished at once. The prom-goers are trapped inside, and one or two of them get their hands or legs caught in the doors as they close, screaming with surprise and pain. who once again was just a little late, arriving just as the she sees the screaming prom-goers unlucky enough to have been caught in the doors. Utter pandemonium as students rush toward the doors. Near the bandstand area, looking up at the stage and realizing that it's Carrie who's responsible for closing the doors. It's Carrie! It's Carrie! Fromm starts heading toward the stage to get control of the microphone, to stop the panic. The kids continue rushing toward the closed doors. small smile at being recognized by the Beak as the one responsible, the one with the power now. It's not what she wanted, but it no longer matters. They're going to know her now and never forget her. Between two sets of double-doors, a huge firehouse installed in case of an emergency. Seeing the hose, getting the idea... begin here. as her eyes narrow and focus on the hose, zeroing on it. As it starts to unwind, to unspiral into the air, starting to spray a burst of water. As it becomes snake-like, water springing from the nozzle. Cries of surprise as it begins to spray water on them, ruining their clothes. As the velocity of the water increases, stronger and stronger. Eyes gleaming, a glimmer of triumph as she concentrates and surveys ­ Like rats in a maze ­ a slapstick chaos as they try to get away from the animated hose. The water forces the students back from the doors, backwards toward the stage. As they see students propelled toward them by the hose. smile of satisfaction. For the first time, she's showing them ­ they're the ones being made to look foolish. She's standing on one side of the stage. Level-headed to the end, making his way through the pandemonium toward the stage area and the bandstand as fast as he can... Still controlling the hose, she spots Ernest, seeing him move toward the stage area. knowing somehow ­ with some sixth sense ­ that Carrie's watching him. He feverishly hurries toward the area where the band equipment is plugged in... where the high voltage cables are hooked up to the electrical current. Behind him, Fromm has reached the microphone and is trying to be heard, telling everyone to remain calm. Realizing just what Ernest plans to do: (gently; determined) No. And she mentally fixes on him, jerking her head just so... so ­ Is flung invisibly and forcibly away from the area by Carrie's will. Big belly and all, trying to steady the mike. He puts his hand on it. The water, however, has reached him, and just as he touches the mic, he's electrocuted ­ his arm bursting into flame, unable to let go as his body goes into an electric dance, his mouth gaping open like a fish on land. Watching this; another flex, and: Is propelled backwards from the microphone; he falls backward into the cyc, his flaming arm igniting it. celestial fantasy immediately bursts into flames. It prevents any of the students from using the back exit. Watching, riveted with horror, some of them screaming, others frozen to the spot as the cyc Utter pandemonium. Her face flushed, a vein in her forehead throbs, her heart pounding. She spots: hanging over the bandstand. as the prom-goers press against the opaque glass, straining to get out. Fish in an aquarium. moving toward the dazed Ernest, who's recuperating from his bout with Carrie. her heart pounding like an anvil. She's staring at: She flexes. Collins and Ernest directly below the path of the lighting bar. We see the flaming cyc on the stage collapse forward. The light bar begins to shake. Plaster drops, and the light bar ­ just short of Collins' head ­ as far as its wires carry it. Watching all this ­ a giggle (or is it a sob?) emerging from deep within her. Another flex. starts to swing recklessly around the gym. Back and forth, back and forth ­ it hits the ceiling, igniting it and the decorations. Flaming stars and planets begin dropping from the ceiling. seeing their chance to escape while Carrie is busy with the light bar. The back door (which Sue couldn't enter from the outside, and which the cyc flames prevented any of the students on the gym floor to get to) is now free, and Billy and Chris see their chance to escape. They burst out from under the stage as: Spots them. In the instant it takes her to wonder what they're doing there, it's too late. They're out the door, and there's absolutely nothing she can do. As it swings, catching Norma Watson in its path, casually whipping this screaming girl in her green chiffon dress back into a wall. Helen Shyres is backed into a corner, giggling with horror, in shock, utterly hysterical. Students have climbed onto the back of the bleachers, trying in vain to pry off the screens on the windows so they can escape. Morton has grabbed a chair and is trying to smash it through another of the windows. All this to no avail. End As she makes her way down the stage stairs and out onto the floor. She spots the cord going under the stage first, and realizes just how the trick was engineered... that Billy and Chris did it. Moving aside as Carrie walks through them ­ an endless series of blurred, hysterical faces. As Carrie makes it to one set of double doors, flexes them open, and exits. As Carrie exits, the doors swinging shut. Behind her, through the windows, we see a wall of fire collapse behind her. She passes Sue in the hall who's sobbing hysterically. And as Carrie exits, Sue runs into this inferno of fire to find Tommy. And then the town and It overlaps onto: Carrie's on her way home. At this point, she looks less like a girl that the survivor of a grisly car accident; wet, caked with blood, eyes glistening madly, almost shapeless. She goes down a hill, and then, from: as a fire truck rushes toward the school, past Carrie. And then shortly afterward, out of nowhere, Billy's Chevy ­ it's headlights gleaming, lurches forward; it's headed right for her. Turns around and sees it coming toward her. Chris screaming "Get her! Get her!" at the top of her lungs, Billy grinning madly behind the wheel. As the Chevy heads right for her, standing in the headlights in its path, bloated, swaying back and forth, her arms thrown out. Almost right on top of her... Flexing, averting the car just as it almost smacks into her. It just misses her. Billy is livid, turning around to see Carrie in the back window. Goddamnit! Billy!!! Shut up! Just shut up! But the car is headed for an embankment. Billy realizes this and starts pumping the brakes. But the car's accelerating, not responding to Billy's efforts to slow it down. Her head pounding, flexing. As Billy attempts to turn the wheel; it, too, has turned traitor ­ it won't turn. They're heading right for the embankment. Billy's eyes are bugging out, Chris is screaming as: Plows smack into the embankment and rolls over several times. It then bursts into a sheet of flames. Watching this explosion turn into a conflagration. We see the fire reflected in her puffy, exhausted face ­ brighter and brighter as we the sound of the merging with and: The house is totally dark. Not even a porch light. In the distance, perhaps, the glow from the burning gymnasium. figure is moving toward the house. It is Carrie. Carrie tries the front door. It is unlocked. She opens it partially. (small voice) Momma? Momma? She opens the door wider. (louder) Momma? Silence. Carrie steps inside. (louder) Momma, I'm home. Silence. Carrie closes the front door. With the closing of the door, Carrie turns on a light. She looks around. The house is ominously empty, ominously still. Silence floods back in. Carrie moves to the foot of the stairs, turning on lights as she goes. She mounts the stairs, goes along the narrow hallway to her room. Carrie turns on the lights, closes the door. She stares at the Madonna-child figurine on the bureau. Then, slowly, she removes her blood-stained clothing, letting it lie in a heap. Clutching a robe, she goes into the bathroom. Carrie turns on the shower, waits for it to get hot. It is almost steaming as she steps in. Very carefully, Carrie scrubs herself clean. Then she steps out of the shower, dries herself off briefly, puts on her robe, and turns off the bathroom light. What's important here is this gives us time to breathe, to focus on Carrie. Carrie returns to her room. She is clean now; her wet hair hangs. feeling of despair about her or perhaps she is emptied out. Carrie almost mouths: Momma... It is a little child's voice and there is no answer. She goes out into the hallway. Carrie goes to the head of the stairs. Once again, she mouths the words: Momma... Something ­ a movement? An instinct? -- makes her turn. She sees: Coming toward her. She flings out her arms and cries out: Oh, Momma! And throws herself against her mother, holds her. movement from Margaret, a quick movement, hard to define. And Carrie recoils, her hands clutching her stomach. Briefly we see the knife in Margaret's hand. Then Carrie tumbles down the stairs. On Carrie, lying like a broken doll, huddled at the foot of the stairs. Carrying the knife, she stares down the stairs. It says in the Lord's Book: `Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.' Dazed, she sees her mother coming, dimly, everything distorted. She begins to crawl backwards, her eyes always on her mother, who is slowly but inexorably coming down the stairs. And now the devil has come home. (whimpering) Momma, it's not right. Carrie starts crawling to the kitchen. Carrie crawls farther and farther from the door, until she reaches the far end of the kitchen, just as Margaret, the knife gleaming in her hand, pointed toward Carrie, reaches the bottom of the stairs and turns toward the kitchen, mumbling all the while. Carrie flexes: the kitchen door swings shut. Margaret is coming toward the kitchen. Carrie flexes again ­ to hold the door shut. But it's no use ­ Margaret is relentless now, and the door opens. She raises the knife and starts toward Carrie, the door swinging behind her. should have killed you when you were born. Momma, love you. Please help me! Sin never dies. There's nothing else to be done. Carrie flexes, and a serving fork ­ dangling from a hook on the way ­ suddenly hurtles through the air, piercing Margaret. It is followed by another and another as a rain of instruments strikes Margaret. Margaret collapses. Carrie, horrified by what she's done, starts toward her mother. And then she and we see Sue standing in the doorway, clasping her hand to her mouth, stifling her screams. You. You tricked me. No. Get out. We were just trying to... Get out. And then something hits the roof, rattling. small sound. stone. Then another. Then a third. Get out! Get out! The stones are beginning to rain on the roof, like hail. Sue is rooted to the spot, terrified. Get out, get out, get out! The stones are coming down harder. All sound as one or two of them break through the roof, rattle on the floor below. stone of fairly small size crashes through into the kitchen. Carrie flexes. And Sue stumbles backwards toward the door. Flex. Sue is whipped around, as though by a great wind. Stones are crashing on the house. Sue is hurtled out of the house. As a couple of larger stones crash into the room, Carrie heads for the closet. Sue, rising from the ground, see stones crashing into the house. She begins to run away. Carrie walks toward the closet; the figure of Jesus is illuminated ­ welcoming her? She goes into the closet. She closes the door. Stones crash down, obliterating the scene. Sue stops running. She turns to look at the White house. The stones are flattening the house. The house is being pounded into the ground. Terror and disbelief. Nightmare. The rain of stones stops. Silence. Then the house begins to sink ­ slowly, slowly, slowly ­ into the ground. And the ground is swallowing up the house. And covering it until ­ nothing remains. Not a trace. Some time later ­ a week, perhaps two weeks after the nightmares of Prom Night. home in the course of losing its family. White sheets cover furniture. Boxes in the midst of being packed. Eleanor Snell, looking incredibly tired, is attending to the last-minute details of moving. She sorts through magazines and books, discarding some, putting others into cartons. And she comes across the religious tracts left behind by Margaret White, forgotten until now. They have a momentary hypnotic effect on her. The phone startling her. She rushes to answer it in the kitchen, catching it on the first or second ring. (hushed voice) Hello? Oh, thank God it's you, Betty. don't think could have handled one more reporter. (she appears to hear a noise upstairs) Just a sec, dear. (she comes into the living room and looks toward the upstairs) Sue? (a little louder) Sue? (no answer, she returns to the phone) Sorry, Betty, just wanted to make sure the phone didn't wake her. We're all a bit edgy. (beat) Better. Sleeping too much, guess, but Schneider says that's to be expected after what she's gone through. He says she's young enough to forget it in time. Knock wood. As Eleanor's side of the conversation continues, the camera conveys her tension. Half of her is listening and talking to Betty; the rest of her mind is on Sue upstairs. With good reason. Because: Where the Horan house used to stand, now vacant. Strewn with beer cans, overgrown with grass and weeds and wildflowers. And a sign. We over next door where the White house used to stand. It, too, is vacant but utterly bald ­ there's been no time for anything to grow here. There is another sign put up by Born Realty. looking utterly haggard and perhaps a bit on the loony side from a lack of sleep stands staring at the lot. She's standing there in her white nightgown, barefoot. as she slowly walks toward it. Underwater, almost floating. We come closer on the sign which now starts appearing a bit odder ­ less like a simple sign and more like a grave marker. And when we get close enough, we see that some graffiti has been hastily scrawled in chalk on the sign: And below it, in a second vandal's handwriting, some idiot's notion of one final joke: as she kneels down, putting the wreath she's carrying next to the marker. She proceeds to try to wipe off the red chalk with the palm of her hand; it smudges badly. She stares at her hand, fixating on it, remembering Carrie in the shower. Suddenly, a second hand thrusts into frame, onto her nightgown. bloody hand. hand from the Earth itself. Carrie's hand It clutches a horrified Sue by the wrist. Tightly. vice. Sue begins screaming uncontrollably. The hand is trying to pull her into the ground. Her screams turn into howling. Still screaming. But now in her room, waking from what is, indeed, a bad nightmare. Upright in bed, screaming her head off, her face covered with perspiration. Eleanor Snell rushes into the room to the bed, embraces her hysterical daughter. It's all right, it's all right, darling. Mother? And we come in close on Sue's stricken face as her mother holds her, calming her, cradling her. Closer still on Sue's eyes. She closes them, and we go to: Carrie : Lawrence Cohen Stephen King :