by Dan Waters based on characters from Comics Batman by Bob Kane previous revisions by John Brancato & Michael Ferris Laeta Kalogridis Theresa Rebeck Kate Kondell John Rogers February 11, 2003 - of This is the cat- god lithe, noble, beautiful. to reveal the statue is 50 feet tall, dominating this space. Other images of -- hieroglyphics, ceramics -- abound, as do -- hundreds of them, slinking in the shadows on ramps cut into the sandstone walls of this Egyptian temple. At Bast's feet, in kneel in a semi- circle around a flaming Some of the women others or stare stoically ahead. From outside, we now hear the sounds of There's a at the massive - is an impressive place of worship -- tapered columns and an ornate Egyptian facade -- at the apex of a hilltop in under by a "496 of a mounted swings into the ornate of the temple. operate the brutal siege engine, the doors again and again. - The wears a special that mostly conceals her face. She moves from one to the next, pours a from a bejeweled decanter into golden goblets, then pours one for herself. She raises her goblet toward as do the others -- they drink in unison. as the to the floor and the to the ground... dead. -- we're watching this from the of an -- slim, elegant, dark-spotted gray and black fur, a on its head. 2. lets out a which prompts an eerie, growing of and from the other emerge from the hiding places en masse, leaping from niches, converging on the bodies. The leads the way, moves to the high priestess and puts its mouth to hers... - at last they and swing open. bearing and storm inside. They grab anything of value, and everything else. At the foot of lie nine but there's no sign of the women who wore them. slash the robes with their swords anyway, then snatch up the goblets for booty. An unearthly -- half-human, half-feline -- from somewhere high above the rampaging soldiers. They freeze, looking around frantically. More echo off the walls, from all directions. The raise their weapons, clustering defensively. From out of the shadows above them, suddenly leap down with impossible agility. peering down impassively. The torch-cast of the violence below play upon the statue's golden surface... the swift of We hear the of the soldiers, clearly outmatched in this mortal combat. perched above the fray, looking downward as they pace the temple's ledges and ramps excitedly. takes a final look at its handiwork, then leaps up, slinks through a crevice at the roof, and emerges on -- We hear the modern of passing to reveal -- - settles by a looking down on a present-day suburban street, a busy main drag. and are visible not far away, light 3. "2500 The watches as, a pulls away from the curb to reveal a in a -- the outfit recalls the high priestess of Bast. The is thrown back, revealing 25-35, attractive but inclined to conceal her looks -- hair over her face, baggy clothes under her poncho. She's cautious, eager to please, to do what's expected of her -- a bit of a doormat. Patience looks up from an address scribbled on a scrap of paper, and straight toward the cat on the roof -- almost as if she'd sensed its presence. She smiles. holds her gaze for a beat, then slinks out of sight. - An eccentric, ramshackle home amongst neat, well-kept houses. moves to the front door, As she waits, she notes the lawn grown high, on the shingles. by the door: opens the door on a chain. She's 50-70, a former academic, intelligent, charming, but quite intimidating. Yes? Hi, Edna Powers? (off her nod) I'm Patience Price, called about adopting a cat? saw your flyer at my vet's office -- Oh yes, do come inside. undoes the chain, opens the door for her. - - out of her poncho, fills out a questionnaire on a clipboard. Numerous roam the premises. Feline artwork and curios, scratching posts, furry toys... cat paradise. 4. ... Ma'am? is putting out in numerous You may call me Edna. Edna. Some of these questions are... kind of personal. Do you really need to know how many, um, partners I've had in the past year? I'm not interested in your love life. But do want to know what sort of home environment you're offering, your degree of commitment... Guess wouldn't need the cat if... Patience forces a laugh, fills in a and passes the clipboard to The woman puts down the cat food, slips on the reading glasses she wears on a chain around her neck. The application is mostly a formality. have a sense about people. Well, I've always liked animals. (not enough) Cats specifically. mean, love them... worship them, even. seems satisfied, returns to reading Patience's answers. meanwhile, comes around a corner into the room, peering curiously at Patience -- who dangles her hand invitingly. He rubs his face against her hand. smiles, coos at the cat -- which grabs her hand hard in his stifles a yelp, yanks her hand back. 5. Son of a -- Excuse me? Nothing... handsome cat. I've never seen one like him. jumps into Patience's lap, settling in. Edna, surprised and almost suspicious, eyes the cat. Her. That's Midnight, an Egyptian Mau. Normally she doesn't trust people -- reaches a hand toward -- the cat's fur stands up, she and at Edna. See? Even can't get near her... Very strange. (glancing at the application) So. You left out your parents' address. Well... they're both dead. No hereditary illnesses, hope. Private plane crash. was eleven. Actually, the last thing they gave me was a kitten... Fatso. sucks her breath in at this insulting name. He was very round -- not from overfeeding or anything, just -- really, he didn't mind. Anyway, he was with me a long time, till early this year. He didn't come at the sound of the can-opener, which kind of freaked me out... found him just, curled up there in his little bed... 6. is getting a bit emotional. reaches across and squeezes her hand, with genuine sympathy. snuggles into Patience's lap, as she strokes the cat. It's very hard, dear, know... you must be in so much pain. Midnight digs her long into Patience's thigh, kneading. winces, tries to dislodge cat's claws from her leg -- Midnight "playfully" attacks her hand. Stifling a gasp: Mm-hmm. Funny how cats get under our skin. They do exactly as they please, they don't care what anyone thinks about them... they're the ultimate predators. So self-contained, so independent, so wild... sometimes wonder, why do they even put up with us? The free food? (putting the papers aside) Well, congratulations. It seems you've been chosen. So you think you might have a kitten for me...? Kitten? No, that wouldn't be appropriate. Midnight has chosen you. looks a little unnerved at this. rolling on her back, seems to be baring her fangs at Patience. It's a great honor. Maus are a very rare breed, descended from the sacred cats of ancient Egypt. They were believed to have magical gifts. 7. has wrapped herself around Patience's arm, kicking and biting "playfully." I'm not sure she likes me -- Nonsense, she perceives something very special in you. There's nothing special about me. Cats see things we don't. Our secret selves -- our souls. Mm. Do you have any Band-Aids? - this modest, neat studio apartment, a with numerous One or two show a there's a picture of a between on a Mostly, though, they're snapshots of a chubby from kitten hood to old age. Suddenly, attacking a picture of ripping it from the bulletin board. facing on the street and an adjacent across an alley -- it's a corner apartment on the second floor. where a classic like Now, Voyager plays. At a key, romantic moment, -- strides -- statuesque, perfect, a supermodel. We hear the of You know who you are. You know what you're after. steps reaches for her -- You know you're too good for any man... 8. Laurel raises an eyebrow haughtily and his face. She moves past the male model to -- -- He's Laurel's husband and the company handsome and charismatic. falls into his arms. He caresses her, deeply in love. Georges ... almost. a of a the name and the Beaunique by Avenal. You know you want it. as she tosses her hair back, Gilda-style, with a seductive pout. She purses her lips in a kiss. -- watches with a curled lip, on the couch in a T-shirt and shorts, directly from a pint carton, a dark smear around her mouth. Suddenly, at the Patience jerks back, startled, raises the spoon out of reach. No -- this is mine! doesn't back off, jumping repeatedly at the spoon, climbing over Patience, getting a rear in the open pint. Oh, gross, you -- just take it. Patience offers the cat the half-empty pint. As digs in happily, burying his head in the container -- in the apartment across the way. hesitates only an instant, sticks the spoon in her mouth, the and flips off a by the sofa. -- his name is -- crosses past. sighs in the dark, moving for a better view. This voyeurism is a guilty habit. 9. checks his mail, loosens his tie, unbuttons his shirt. Welcome home, sweetie. How was work today...? (male voice) Same old same old. All wanna do is get out of this shirt and give you a big old hug... is distracted, reading his mail, shirt still on. meanwhile, pulls her head out of the ice cream and leaps onto the windowsill -- she looks first at Lone, then at Patience, who looks around her. Down in front... Come on, you, off with the shirt. Instead, is moving out of view. moves in the same direction, into her - - faces into Lone's bedroom. He starts to unbutton his shirt, glances casually out the window -- immediately ducks out of sight. moment later, she rises slowly to peek out again -- is has turned off flips studies her face in the mirror. Lame, lame, lame. She wipes a bit of chocolate from the corner of her mouth. She tries a seductive pout, a la Laurel, gives her hair a seductive toss -- it winds up in her eyes and mouth. -- from across the alley, we see before her mirror, brushing her hair. to reveal we're watching with who spies on Patience through his own window, lights off. He 10. - - delivers an assault on the senses: oversized versions of the charts of shelves upon shelves of slickly-packaged Prominent is a for in perfectly coiffed and made-up Barbie dolls, busily paint the faces of women of all ages and backgrounds, in high-tech that resemble torture devices. crosses through, pausing to take off her sneakers and pull on a pair of high heels. -- an Avenal girl in a prim outfit, working on a matronly -- looks up to greet We now see Patience has a small on her cheek, poorly covered with makeup. Look what the cat dragged in. (touching her cheek) know, know, I'm late -- Midnight thought there was a mouse in my pillow. This is why only sleep with my own species. Lunch at Joey's? nods and waves as she hurries through a set of doors to an - - on a rat's maze of office cubicles, peopled with tapping at her terminal, sipping It's a grim little space, enlivened by a toy, some New Yorker cartoons. seems bored by the drone work -- then she cocks her head at something on the screen, leans closer. She double- checks in the print-outs. Something doesn't tally. -- among a long list of figures, we see highlighted, followed by a series of numbers. gets up quickly with the printouts, she spills a few drops of on her white blouse. She dabs at these distractedly as she moves through the bullpen toward a glassed-in office. She knocks on the open door, where we see the name - 11. Dave, was just going over the first quarter expenses. Our lab fees for this one additive -- -- have gone through the roof. a balding, bespectacled accountant, looks up as Patience moves around his desk to show him some figures. Look at this, an overage of eight hundred percent on "extruded pellets" alone -- I'm not even sure what that is -- Rat chow. Berger's concerned. As they huddle over the figures, we hear a approach. the - - - -- the 40-story skyscraper in the business district of a city mixing architecture old and new. a on a cable-driven rig. the we see a glowing sign which reads -- and a coming in for a landing. - - touches down on a atop an elevated emerges, ducking in the blade wash. The company's Georges is charismatic, handsome, immaculately tailored -- an exacting asshole to the core. Getting out of the helicopter behind him, his menacing, silent bodyguard carries a leather suitcase or two. trots toward her husband with open arms. Laurel is 30-something, a still-gorgeous super-model but, in person, a tad past her prime. She comes across as sweet and well-meaning, but a bit dim and victimized. Oh honey, welcome back! She throws her arms around Georges to give him a kiss, but he pushes her away, turns aside to 12. Are you all right? My allergies. thought you were getting rid of that vile dog of yours. plucks a long from her clothes, holds it up for her to see, then moves on briskly, down an external flight of stairs from the helipad to a below. Laurel follows after him, Angel in the rear. Georges, when you're gone, Tippy is all I've got and -- get so lonely. So get a bird or a fish, something that doesn't shed. (a glance at her) Have you gained weight? They head through glass doors into the - - protests, examining her body. No no, it's muscle -- I've been working out, doing my Tae Kwan Do -- She flexes a to demonstrate. isn't interested, looking at the penthouse decor with distaste. Meanwhile moves to an elevator, presses a down button and awaits his masters. The penthouse is a large, dramatic space, decorated in a frilly, Louis style -- classical of nude females, ornate across one wall -- there are cans of paint, a work in progress. large of dominates the room. In one alcove is a surrounded by lights. What the hell happened here? 13. I'm doing some redecorating, I've had so much time on my hands -- do you like it? No. What's with the curtains? Draperies. They soften the space... like hard spaces. (off her hurt look) Whatever, Laurel, if it makes you happy. plan to be spending more time at the factory, anyway. He enters the Laurel behind, Angel hits the button. - - depicts and together. curls her lip at this as she presses the button. to reveal the real and startling Patience a bit, the impassive behind them. Patience takes a half-step forward and hesitates, reluctant to get aboard, frozen in place. The start to close, then open again -- she's in the way. In or out? meekly steps into the elevator, presses a button for the lobby, nervously keeping her eyes fixed to the front. - - leans past her to hit Many are sprinkled on her clothes, he and stifles a sneeze. He looks Patience over, and doesn't like what he sees. Excuse me, miss. Do you know who am? 14. Um... of course. You're Georges Avenal -- you own the company -- Then you actually work for me. Are you familiar with our products? Yes sir, just can't really afford them -- You can afford some peroxide, can't you? Do something about this mousy hair. runs a hand distastefully through her frizzy hair, then takes a moment to study her. Stain on your blouse, run in your pantyhose -- and that color's awful on you. (fingering her outfit) Do you own an iron? Show me your hands. Shaking, Patience extends her hands. Georges inspects her trembling fingers. He seems saddened, clucks his tongue. nail-biter... my my, you really are the "before" picture, aren't you? could give her the number for my manicurist -- (waving Laurel off) What's your name? Patience... haven't got all day -- 15. No, my name's Patience, Patience Price. I'm in accounting. I'm afraid that's no excuse. Regardless of your position, you do represent Avenal Beauty. simply can't allow that to continue. Wait. You're not -- firing me? have no choice. All we have to sell is an image -- and you are not it. You've got to go. The Patience stares at the man in disbelief, then bolts out into the and as the doors close. Poor girl. studies Laurel's face a moment, leans closer, amazed. Is that a pimple? - retro place, and sit in a booth over and Sally leans across the table, fixing Patience's make-up -- her mascara's run from crying, her nose is red. An open rests between them. try, Sally, really do. read Vogue, wear uncomfortable shoes... I've been a female all my life, you'd think I'd be better at it by now. Watch the frown lines, you'll need a lift before you're forty. 16. He's right, I'm not even presentable enough to be an accountant. Maybe the church needs a new bell- ringer. Look, he was just in a bad mood. Sales are down, his marriage is on the rocks -- How do you know that? have an enquiring mind. This is "Nympho," very hot, snagged it from the showroom... She opens a tube of starts applying it expertly to Patience's lips as she speaks. Laurel's losing her looks, she's dumber than her cockapoo -- buzz is, Georges is trading her in for next year's model. All I'm saying is, by now he's probably forgotten about canning you. don't care. No way am going back there. Shut up, you'll smear... voila, now suck your finger. Patience puts her finger in her mouth, pulls it out with a pop, to keep the lipstick off her teeth. She studies the residue on her finger. can't believe we put this stuff on our mouths. Grease, acid and ground-up fish scales... who knows what they put in our mascara... No wonder you never made it in sales. as a long passes. 17. - is fixing her make-up meticulously in a looking for signs of the dreaded zit. is flipping through a weasely is seated between them, going over an electronic appointment book. in the passenger seat. You're both scheduled to appear at the Make-Overs for the Homeless event on the 25th -- Ugh. That one's yours, Laurel. The ballet opens the following Friday -- (re: the ad boards) These look good, Wesley, send them back to the agency. closes the compact, leans across to catch a glimpse. May see? You wouldn't be interested. Please, Georges? She tugs a board away, then sucks in her breath seeing -- featuring a gorgeous young model, nearly nude. We see a tube of with the That's Drina. She's... pretty. She's magnificent. takes the board back, looks a little sick. 18. Well, I'm still the face of Avenal... aren't (smiling indulgently) You've had a remarkably long shelf life, it's true. But... every product has an expiration date. Laurel bites her lip, looks out the window, close to tears. is ringing, answers in front. Georges' hands are still full with the ads piled around him. Uh, sir, it's Dave Berger in accounting. Who? don't talk to bean-counters. He says it's urgent. All right, Angel, put it on speaker. - - peers at his a half-eaten nearby. He's marked up the that Patience brought him. (on phone) Mr. Avenal -- hate to bother you, sir, but we have a problem. It seems the lab has been overproducing -- that's the anti-aging ingredient in Beaunique -- Why are you telling me this? It's routine to have a surplus -- 19. We've stockpiled over a thousand gallons, enough to last us well into the 29th Century. Perhaps that is a trifle optimistic -- And very expensive. Funding seems to have been siphoned out of the employee pension plan -- Impossible, this has to be an error. Are you responsible for this data? Well, actually Patience Price brought the matter to my attention -- Yes, yes, I'm familiar with Ms. Price. Obviously her bookkeeping is as sloppy as her appearance. Sir, she's a very reliable employee -- I've heard enough, Berger. In the future, double- check your figures before you waste my time -- and then put it in a memo. (on phone) In all fairness, Mr. Avenal, think -- He's talking to a dial tone. Berger hangs up, frustrated and chagrined. 20. - on a a ritzy SALLY's face appears in the window, beaming. Wow... sorry, Patience, just found a new best friend. beside her, appreciatively, then moves on. I'm sick of drooling over things I'll never have. The two are passing a boots and high-heels... belt buckles, Oh, you're a ray of sunshine. Tell you what, let me take you clubbing this weekend -- I'm not sure I'm fit to be seen in public. You will be in that dress. I've had my eye on it for weeks. points at a in the window of a trendy boutique, garbed in a dramatic, sexy outfit -- a short bodice, a tiny skirt, plenty of plastic skin showing. Sally, that is not a dress, it's a rumor of a dress. It's barely forensic evidence of a dress. It's a genuine Gaultier knock-off -- It's not me. But don't you ever wanna be somebody else? just wish could be ten years old again -- it didn't matter what wore as long as could climb a tree in it. 21. Your tomboy days are over. That's my bus, Sal, see you later. trots toward a calls after her. This weekend, Patience. swear, I'm gonna make you have fun if it kills you... As Sally moves on, the window of scantily-clad including one in and a - the accountant, dressed casually, gets out of a and heads into his modest home. - Berger the air quizzically as he lets himself in. He moves toward the In the kitchen he fumbles for a flicks it on and -- - The with a a pulls from the curb, and away. - - moves to her apartment door, arms loaded with She struggles to unlock the door while keeping these upright -- we see a emblem on her key chain. As soon as the door is open -- -- out into the hall, a black streak moving toward the stairs and darting upward. 22. Midnight! You little monster -- Patience tosses her groceries in the door, leaving it ajar, and runs after the cat. few moments after she's vanished up the stairs, we hear from below and... Georges Avenal's menacing bodyguard, appears in the hallway. He moves purposefully for Patience's door, pushes it open and steps inside. Midnight just saved her neck. - - makes for an open hall window that leads onto a Patience just spots her heading outside. Oh no... - - Patience reaches the window just in time to see -- make a across the alleyway and -- -- is annoyed, but also impressed, in spite of herself. Hell of a jump... - flings open the closet and bathroom doors in Patience's empty apartment -- no dice. On his way out, he eyes a plate of cat food and ice cream with a wince. - - Patience clumsily up Lone's reaches the level Midnight is on, moves toward the cat. 23. You are not worth the trouble -- Suddenly, a just a foot away, a points in her face. Patience lets out a jumps back -- Freeze! It's But Patience loses her balance, -- -- and in an open darts from the window, alarmed, realizing his error. - emerges, shaking his head and shrugging toward the unseen driver of the then he climbs in the passenger door. As the car pulls away -- -- hurries from the building next-door toward the alley. - - painfully gets upright, slipping in the trash, as appears; he's a no-nonsense, gruff cop with a dry wit. You all right? He clambers onto the dumpster's edge to help her out, she slips and slides, almost pulls him in after her. I'm really sorry -- I'm a police officer, heard the noise and just assumed... here, grab my arm. He manages to hoist Patience to the lip, she's able to climb to the ground. She's drenched in just stares at Lone, a bit dazed from the fall. She can't believe she's face to face with the man of her dreams. Lone thinks a beat. Habla espanol? 24. She blinks at him, confused, then he tentatively flashes a few for the deaf. She waves this off. No, -- see, my cat got out -- rubs against Patience's leg. She picks the cat up, nods toward her window. live right up there -- know. You do? mean, -- I've seen you. Around. Really. Actually, I've seen you too. Around, that is. (a nod at the dumpster) Thanks for helping me out. Don't mention it. can't resist a damsel in distress. smiles and cocks her head... flirtatious body language. She runs a hand through her hair, pulls out some sticky looks at it with disgust. Oh God, what -- what is that?! He looks over her shoulder, winces. could run it over to the lab... She tosses it in the dumpster, finally registering that she's drenched in I'm sorry, it was nice talking to you, but -- I'm completely disgusting. 25. Mortified, she hurries back to the entrance to her building. Lone looks after her, amused. - before a a behind a stands guard. are near the front of the line. Sally has transformed herself, with heavy make-up, a revealing skin-tight outfit that shows plenty of cleavage. Patience is in a conservative dress, one she might wear to work. Sally with at something Patience has just said. Patience looks grim. It isn't funny. (still chuckling) Yes it is. All this time you've spent mooning over that hottie neighbor and he points a gun at you -- At least it broke the ice -- told you men go for trashy women. Patience rolls her eyes, looks over Sally's clothes. Speaking of which -- how do you even stay in that outfit? With any luck, won't need to. hardly recognize you. That's the idea. go out at night, leave daytime Sally behind, become a different person. All women do. Except you, of course. 26. (shrugs, checks her watch) How long have we been here, an hour? We're never getting in... -- call them and -- push their way past almost knocking her over. Randy's gets her in the gut, Sandy's drives into her foot. Ow! looks at her blankly as hops, injured. You could say I'm sorry? Okay, you're sorry. He and Sandy laugh as the unhooks the rope, steps aside for them to enter. God, people are so rude. Yes! Sally has just gotten the hurries forward. Patience follows, limping a bit. The blocks Patience's path, looking her over from head to toe, disapproving. She's with me. Then you can stay out here too. She happens to be a very fine human being -- Like said, she don't belong inside. Sally, just -- go in without me -- See, you shoulda bought the dress. bolts, humiliated; looks after her sadly. 27. - sits alone in the back of the bus, looks at -- making out... an holding hands. Her eyes drift to an for overhead -- and arms around each other. Patience sighs and stares out the window. - walks toward her building, the bus kiosk behind her, the The street is deserted at this hour. Patience feels very alone, until she looks up to see -- -- perched in her window, awaiting her arrival. smile appears on Patience's face. She quickens her step, crossing the empty street, almost to the sidewalk when -- -- behind her. Patience spins just as -- -- barrels out of the darkness and -- Hits her full-on. at the -- the cat lets out a the has stopped, Patience lies a short distance behind... in bad shape. The barely conscious. approaches, studies her, turns her over with his foot. He nods, a job well done. - is bouncing off the walls, like mad, lunging and scratching at the door. Finally, the cat charges across the floor, herself in a dramatic leap and -- - as -- 28. - (we don't get a good look) hits hard and vanishes below. we're at a bridge over a river, in the distance. and the away. rises -- from a rooftop. Unseen join in, a feline - The just audible, far off. Then -- a squeezes out a at the gap in the sill... more out dormers... yet the flapping - scramble through alleyways, joined by converging from all directions, picking up the It's like a flowing - -- past floating a and We hear the of the from nearby, approaching. of the further away, the visible. a nylon-encased a woman's her clothes and strewn with The body bobs amidst by this soggy shoreline. We reach the woman's -- unnaturally pale, eyes fixed... it's Dead. is now... have gathered here, parting for a feline The Mau steps tentatively out onto Patience's corpse, careful not to get too wet. She crouches on her chest, and -- audibly into her parted lips. brief, barely visible flickers at Patience's mouth. shudders, then moves aside, as if drugged. climbs out onto Patience to take Midnight's place and perform the same ritual. 29. The crowd of waiting in the reeds, more arriving by the minute, ready to take turns. into one - perhaps and mixed with human a to either side -- we hear and the dashes after a at a mirror in a Halloween in a suburban backyard. We see her below, searching for young Patience. surrounded by now we hear the and -- - -- sits up with a She thrashes in the shallows of the marsh, gasping for air, disoriented... reborn. There's no sign of the cats. crawls onto shore amidst the reeds, slightly clumsy at first, almost like a newborn kitten. Her ragged, wet clothes cling to her body. on her terrified expression. She has no idea what she's doing here -- or who, or what she is. She opens her mouth to speak -- all that comes out is a strangled She works her jaw, but can't produce human speech. She darts her head, seems disoriented and overwhelmed. -- perhaps the darkness objects of interest as she takes in the marshland. The of any creature in sight We'll call this 30. a nearby perched on a blade of grass -- then an in the distance, soaring over the park. its prey, a swoops with a nailing the we hear its frightened at first, becomes increasingly delighted by her heightened senses. She spots -- in the tall grass. The cat turns, looks over her shoulder once -- her catch moonlight and Patience is clearly meant to follow. follows on all fours, tenuously at first. But as she proceeds, her shoulders and hips roll in distinctly feline fashion. Her body seems slimmer, more muscular. She rises on two legs, moving in a slinky crouch. pauses to sharpen her claws on the bark of a gnarled old follows Midnight's lead, leans forward against the trunk, arms straight out, head arched back. She stretches her neck, her back -- her every movement is graceful, sensual, the awkwardness gone. She tries to pull her hands from the tree -- but can't for a moment, finding her stuck into the bark (like a cat at a scratching post). -- without thinking about it, scrambles up the side of the tree like a streak. -- tugs on its leash, some distance away. The dog walker yanks the dog onward. takes this in, hears a -- is perched above her, very Cheshire Cat-like. looks around, self-conscious for a moment -- what is she doing up a tree? Bad idea to think. She loses her balance, clutching at branches, tumbles out of the tree -- for an instant, she flails spastically, letting out a -- then her body instinctively and -- on all fours, one leg kicked out, haunches low. lands beside her, nods approvingly at her landing. Then the cat darts away again, Patience pursues. 31. - leaps to the top of a staring down at Patience -- "come on." Patience hesitates, then crouches and (with more than human ability), lands triumphantly on the fence -- then teeters and to the other side. looks disappointed. Patience jumps up again quickly, as if pretending this never happened, this time managing to hold her balance. gives her a look and leads onward. At first she's like a tightrope walker, careful of falling, but her steps become more confident. Soon she's moving as quickly and smoothly as the cat. leaps off the fence and darts across a road, follows. - tall wrought-iron surrounds greenery and distant cages in an urban area. - squeezes through a gap between the uprights. hesitates -- this is too narrow for a normal human. waits impatiently on the other side, tail twitching. makes a dubious but manages to slip a foot -- then a leg -- into the opening, twisting and contorting. Amazingly, she's succeeding, her torso ripples and contracts as she insinuates herself between the bars. Finally only her head is on the wrong side. With a final she's through. crouches low, stalking. copies the behavior. slowly approaches -- fluttering near a in this botanical garden. sneaks up close, then but the flies out of the cat's grasp. turns on her and The woman and the cat roll together in this neat playing and batting at each other. a small sign nearby, which labels this planting as a follows, still high, giggly. She suddenly finds herself face to face with: He lets out a small 32. blinks, crouches -- and back, unafraid. The tiger springs forward... and She wrestles with him playfully, he's just a bigger version of Midnight. - - sleeps in bed. climbs atop her, starts kneading. She makes a rolls over, opens her eyes. Midnight? What are you doing here? She squints, sees morning light through a window. She climbs out of bed in her nightdress. - emerges in a bathrobe, crossing her overgrown lawn, bounding ahead of her. Martha Stewarty weeding an immaculate garden, throws Edna a sour look. Edna, your cats have been using my garden as a litter box again. (gravely) You can't change their nature. The neighbor scowls and returns to her weeding. As bends down for her newspaper, she hears a and sees -- -- Midnight licking a which protrudes from under a bush. Edna moves closer, crouching to get a better look. It's sound asleep, body twisted sideways in an unnatural position. Quietly: Hello...? Patience starts awake, looking around, confused. 33. What are you doing in my hedge? Patience rolls out from under the bushes, crouches on her haunches now, a panicky look in her eyes. Leaves and dirt cling to her clothes. She has no idea how she got here. - - is wrapped in a sitting on the couch, nuzzling her, as brings her a cup of Edna picks up a from a coffee table. Your name is Patience Price, you live on South 87th. (beat) You love chocolate -- you're afraid of heights? Any of this ring a bell? Patience nods slowly, puts her face in her hands. it's coming back to me. But last night... it's just... it's like a dream. (chiding) You said in your application that you don't drink or take drugs. (rising) don't. think... something must have happened. need to... You need to rest. Patience takes a few steps from the couch and lets the blanket slip from her shoulders. Oh my God... Edna stares at The fabric of her dress is torn, the skin discolored beneath with a hint of dried blood -- and we make out the marks left by a 34. You're in no condition to -- moves beside Patience and by the wrist -- the fingers and emerge from her fingertips -- only for an instant. blinks at this, whirls on her with an abrupt and frightening -- Patience's pupils become for a blink, flecked with then -- She yanks her hand away quickly, immediately looks contrite, and a bit dazed from the momentary transformation. Sorry, you -- you startled me... look, Edna, thanks for everything, but -- just want to get home and take a bath. Edna nods, unnerved. picks up in her arms and hurries out the door. Edna stares after her, a disturbing thought forming. - - moves purposefully to a in this cluttered, book-lined room and opens a drawer. She thumbs past many years' worth of scholarly research, finally pulling a thick, dog-eared from near the back. She moves to her desk, slips on reading glasses and opens the folder -- -- an old, thick type-written entitled by Ph.D." She puts this aside, revealing a of an Catwoman in leopard skin, surrounded by cats. Next, an a print of a 19th Century watercolor. She wears a Chinese- style close-fitting robes, a long tail. Both illustrations show the women with and - - stares at her dirty face in the still reeling from the events of the previous night. 35. Behind her, almost filled. She moves to the edge of the tub, starting to undo her ragged clothes, stares down at -- She blinks, her expression far away -- - vertiginous from the bridge toward -- - - starts, shaking off this momentary vision. She dips a finger in the water, jerks back -- much as a cat might. She shakes drops off her hand, repelled by the water. - There's at the door. The a picks up. We hear from beyond the closed bathroom door. This is Patience, you can leave a message if you want... - - turns off the in the quiet she hears on her answering machine. It's Edna Powers -- the most extraordinary thing, -- think know what's happened to you -- has risen with a shiver, hurries back into the main room, pulling her blouse closed. - moves for the but at the sight of -- 36. -- someone trying to get in. -- be careful, Patience, I'm afraid you may be in danger... lets out a menacing the door swings open -- a starts to enter -- whacks him over the head with a is knocked hard into the door and slumps to the ground, stunned... it's recognizes him with horror, looks at the door -- with the emblem dangle from the lock, her is on the ground. am so, so sorry -- groans, painfully coming to and sitting up. crouches at his side. You actually hit me with a frying pan? didn't know it was you. Guess we're even now. Name's Tom Lone, by the way. (shakes his hand) Patience Price. Yeah, know, checked your Oh God, not that awful driver's license picture -- (rubbing his head) Got any ice? 37. hurries to assemble an ice pack, is eating happily at the table, gets to his feet. found your purse in the street right outside this morning. tried calling -- was afraid something might've happened to you... returns with a washcloth full of ice. That was really nice of you. Well, it's part of my job... I'm a detective, burglary-robbery division. So what did happen to you? He applies the ice-pack to his head while eying her clothes. She suddenly becomes aware of her disheveled appearance. Oh no, I'm a mess. It seems every time you see me -- was just cleaning. (this isn't flying) The um, the chimney. Where's the fireplace? It wasn't mine. You're a freelance chimney sweep? is now looking around the apartment, taking it all in with a careful detective's eye. He sees the shredded the points -- You should get that fixed. Oh yeah, hadn't noticed... mean, had to break it to get in because... lost my purse. 38. (studying the windowsill) Funny, looks like it was broken from inside. Lone is now regarding her with open curiosity. Patience shrugs helplessly. So everything's all right now? (off her nod) Well, I'd better be getting to the station, then... unless there's anything else. hopes so, desperately wants him to stay... but -- guess not... Then -- bye, now. He sounds disappointed. As the door shuts, Patience clutches her hair, makes a of frustration, almost like a - - flings open the door, calls after Lone: want you... He turns, startled. Patience has a sultry, come-hither look in her eye, her has a lower, sexier tone. Excuse me? She shudders. The sexy expression turns to one of shock and anxiety -- what has she done? Then, vamping: want you, um, to forgive me. For hitting you like that. No need -- woman living alone, you can't take any chances. 39. nods unsurely, starts to retreat into the apartment. thinks, calls out to her. Listen, was gonna grab a cup of coffee... - and move from a with in hand. Patience has cleaned up, dressed a little sexier than usual -- she looks good. So, did you always want to be a policeman? (beat, rolling her eyes) God, listen to me, Conversation 101. (a laugh) Hey, we gotta start somewhere. Actually, when was a kid, wanted to be a rock star. They take seats at a small table. was kind of a delinquent back then, got into some trouble. There was a cop who helped me out. Made a difference. figured... maybe could do the same. Plus you can still get into trouble. Right, but for the good guys... So what do you do? When you're not dumpster diving or cleaning chimneys, mean. Accounting. That is, used to, just lost my job. I'm sorry. 40. Don't be, it was pretty dull. guess when you get down to it, I'm pretty dull. Patience realizes she's not making for a great first date. Let me start over. It's just... never got into any trouble or anything -- Come on, never? Well, when was little, but -- after lost my folks guess turned into sort of a scaredy- ca -- um, pretty risk-averse. That's not a bad thing. It's a pretty dangerous world. Sometimes just wish was less of a wimp. You're not afraid to admit you're afraid -- that takes guts. It does? Most women know pretend to be tougher than they really are. (beat) Listen... if you ever need someone -- to look out for you, keep an eye on -- (changing tack) -- or whatever -- I'm available. He pulls a card from his wallet, passes it to her. Wow. 41. (catching himself) Oh hey, didn't mean that to sound like a come-on -- (disappointed) Oh. mean, unless you... (rising) I'm just going to shut up now and go. See you around. Yeah, you will. He gives her a wave and heads out of the coffee shop. broad smile spreads over Patience's face. - on a It's only there for a moment, quickly plastered over with -- featuring We're outside a dramatic, gated industrial with the a sprawling at the center. - - etc., it's a busy, environment. large windows overlooking the factory floor. behind the thick windows, it's This is a hard, masculine space, all steel and wood. stands by a table, and at his side; 50s, a smoldering Russian scientist, is showing them -- of people's faces, the eyes covered with black -- the skin is lumpy, something very wrong. 42. flips through these quickly, his tone frustrated. Okay, with too much you get side-effects -- but too much of anything is bad for you -- tap water, sunshine, cigarettes -- It's like leprosy or something... The point is, now that we've adjusted the formula, Beaunique works. Plumps the skin, removes wrinkles, leaves a nice rosy glow -- it's perfectly safe now, my own wife uses it... His voice trails off as he considers this fact. He glances at the medical pictures, puts them aside. Airy denial: You want to be beautiful, you've got to make certain sacrifices. mean, look at Botox, women are lining up to get their faces paralyzed. has been doing a slow burn, now blurts out: Enough! Pretending my is only for your cosmetics, feh! You've known about these "side- effects" from the start, they are not side-effects at all -- What? You're not making sense -- thought I'd left this sort of madness behind me - - then find out you've been in contact with Xavier Bartok -- I've never heard of the man. 43. still have connections. You may have used me, but am not a fool. Doctor Nevski, is it possible you've gone insane? spins on his heel and storms out. Russians, sheesh. As if don't have enough on my mind. moves to a nearby He starts feeding in the Changes are going to have to be made... and change can be painful. He glances at a lying on his desk. It isn't easy to eliminate an established brand... Finished shredding the medical photos, he picks up the -- it's an for featuring Sir, are you seriously thinking of recalling Beaunique --? I'm not talking about Beaunique. He slips the into the -- as the machine turns into we hear the of famous poet once said, beauty is truth, truth beauty... 44. - -- tents, boxes, etc. -- nearby. stand in a line near are busy painting their faces, doing their best. ...or maybe it's the other way around... at a with a are trained on her as she signs etc. while talking into a The point is, everyone deserves to look in the mirror and feel good about themselves. Be we rich or poor, we all must strive to be more beautiful than we can be... in a suit with a briefcase reaches Laurel, places a stack of papers in front of her. She starts to sign automatically, then stops, turns off the mic. What is this? Laurel Avenal, am hereby serving you with a restraining order. What? You are not to set foot within one hundred yards of any property owned or occupied by Avenal Beauty Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. -- this must be some sort of mistake -- You will, however, have sixty days to remain in residence at the Avenal estate, at the end of which time you and all your personal property must be -- 45. (a desperate cry) Georges Avenal is my husband! The man pulls another document from his briefcase. That brings me to this petition for divorce... looks shell-shocked. She turns and manages to force a stiff, trembling smile for the photographer. again, the frame -- - She stirs, stretches. she's lying on top of a in a twisted, awkward position. jumps up and brushes against her. -- they and (for a moment) -- now pure -- springs down gracefully and scans the dark apartment. She stretches her limbs languorously, licks her lips. She flexes her fingers, watching appreciatively as her She reaches out and on a fingernail, regards it as she picks up the receiver. With another she unhesitatingly punches in the number. When she speaks, after a beat, her voice is throaty, sexier -- whenever she's Catwoman, she'll talk this way. During the following, she toys with the long like a cat. (on phone) Mmm, too bad you're not there... guess I'll have to go out and play by myself. She tosses the receiver aside and prowls the room, moving casually atop the back of the couch, from there to other pieces of furniture and the counter, hops down to the floor. She studies the place as if seeing it for the first time. 46. What a dump. plucks at the clothing she wears, frowning. She opens a and through the contents, like a cat digging in a litterbox, the clothes. Ugh -- please -- frowsy -- She moves to a closet, throws open the door, rifling through the outfits, them to bits, hurling them aside. Damn, haven't got a thing to wear! True -- she's emptied and trashed the closet, the door. - of -- the the the the The that had displayed the Gaultier knock-off is now - out front behind the velvet ropes. All eyes turn toward an approaching whom we don't see at first... -- a sleek pair of black patent leather appears. purring rendition of a familiar children's tune: And the cat came back, the very next day... to reveal the rest of the ensemble -- long legs in the short and bodice of the dress. is wrapped around her waist, the tip dangles almost like a tail. Her stride is confident, sexy. 47. The cat came back, they thought she was a goner... Her arms are encased in long, satiny half with eyeholes and subtle cat's ears covers the top half of her face, her hair falls free like a mane behind. But the cat came back, she just wouldn't stay awa- a-ay... -- the former -- comes to a stop in front of the slack-jawed What's the word I'm looking for? Oh yes... Meow. So saying, she strokes a finger under the bouncer's chin -- the emerges from a in the glove's fingertip, but doesn't draw blood. recovers himself, unhooking the rope and stepping aside. Catwoman strides past him into the club. - Dramatic throbbing moves confidently through the club. can't help but stare, getting out of her path as she crosses the room. and the rude couple, are bellied up to the bar. slithers between them, almost unnoticed at first. starts as something against his back -- holds the end of her smacking it lightly against his rear end. He looks up at her. Buy me a drink. stares daggers at Catwoman with her drooling boyfriend, but Catwoman ignores her, leaning close to the attentive and almost whispering: 48. White Russian, no ice, hold the vodka and Kahlua. The man blinks, retreats to fill the order. taps Catwoman on the shoulder as she makes eyes at Randy. Excuse me. Excuse me, earth to slut -- he's taken. Without looking at her, Catwoman discreetly into her hand, then drops something in martini glass -- -- a in the woman's drink. backs away, making a horrified noise. Euw! The bartender produces a full of cream. Cream, straight up. Catwoman knocks this back, licks white residue from her lips. Let's dance. She grabs by the lapel and drags him toward the dance floor -- not that he needs a lot of encouragement. shoves the man onto the dance floor ahead of her. She begins to writhe sensuously to the music, instantly the center of attention. Catwoman's distinctive movements combine catlike grace with acrobatics and martial arts. does his best to keep up. He moves near, puts his hands on her ass. She hisses: Don't touch my tail. pulls her from around her waist, it in the air -- Randy backs off. But Catwoman swings the whip so that the braided leather wraps repeatedly around his torso. 49. She pulls him against her, clutches his butt -- then spinning him out on the whip like a top -- his have been the belt His pants drop to his ankles, he stumbles back in his loud bikini underwear, losing his balance and falling. reacts, laughter. That's enough for one night, honey. at her from behind, but she drops down and slithers out of his grasp -- it's like she's vanished into thin air -- then rises behind him, plants a foot in his ass -- -- and boots him into the -- appear from the back, approach angrily. Guess the party's over. springs upward, atop a She moves with incredible agility, near the roof of the club, from the speakers to a -- she leaps and grabs a which and deposits her close to the door. - hurls open the front doors, kicks aside the velvet rope. She addresses the impatient C'mon in, wanna-bes! Free drinks! stampedes the door. Catwoman struts away down the sidewalk, recoiling the whip around her waist. couple of make it past the throng. moving onto a highway notes she's being pursued. She puts a hand on the railing, and casually -- rush to the side, look out to see -- - strutting confidently down the narrow between the two directions of 50. She could be out for an evening stroll, ignoring the and She gives them a wave without bothering to look over her shoulder. - explodes open and a of a emerges in a brushing a few stray ones off her outfit, with a cat-that-ate-the-canary smile. She cocks her head, listening in different directions for a new source of amusement -- snippets of passing it's like tuning a radio. Then she picks up a distant of breaking -- - Dimly lit, an older, discount place. #1 methodically breaks with a wrapped hammer, snatches up the contents -- necklaces, rings, etc. -- stuffing them into a As he moves, a -- -- moves with him, looking over his shoulder, close enough to touch but unseen. Each time he turns his head, she has just slinked out of his view -- her timing is impeccable. #2, with a stands guard over a blindfolded, bound-and-gagged appears on the periphery of his vision, but when he turns his head she's disappeared behind a case -- she emerges on the other side just before he turns back. #3 is at work on a of with a and across the above him, he looks up -- but there's nobody there. He returns to his work, gets the open and pulls out a revealing a full of glittering Oooh, pretty. spin, looking around -- #1 Up there! 51. #2 aims his at -- perched on a narrow at the ceiling moulding. She down just as he a #2 pumps his shotgun, looking around frantically. #2 What the hell was that?! springs out from behind a gives Thief #2 a roundhouse in the head that sends the man into a wall, knocking him cold. #1 pulls a but the wraps around it in a flash, yanks it from his hand. at Thief #1 and Thief #3, backing them into a corner. As she passes the tied-up she uses her claws to his ropes. In time with -- You boys -- thought you could just barge -- in here and take -- all these beautiful things -- that don't belong to you... The guard quickly tears off his and untying his own feet, then picks up the fallen handgun and trains it on the thieves. We hear meanwhile swiftly gathers up fallen jewels, sweeping them into the swag bag. She pauses for a moment, thoughtful. (to herself) What a lovely idea. With lightning speed, she vanishes out the back with the bag. totally focused on the thieves, doesn't even register she's gone. #3 points -- #3 Hey... - bounds out the exit, leaps atop onto a window which totters with her weight, just as -- 52. screeches to a halt, and leaps out, ready. He trains it on -- Freeze! freezes. She blinks down at he's got a clean shot at her. She cocks her head, licks her lips. You are cute. blinks at this uncommon response to a pointed weapon, continues to play it by the book. I'm a police officer! Bet you look sweet in uniform. And such a big gun... -- Come down here, now! Obviously you don't know much about cats. come when want, not when I'm told. With that, she to the rooftop -- the force of her leap knocks the free of the window, has to dive out of the way as it to the ground. - silhouetted against the sky, is having a great time, leaping from building to building, scrambling across rooftops. recede in the distance. - is rising. a couple of in the dirt. in the curled against what looks like a She stirs and groans in her sleep, like someone waking with a hangover. 53. She blinks and frowns at the Where am She sits up and realizes -- she was sleeping against the belly of the lying on his side in his sunken and leaps to her feet, terrified, yanks With the daylight, she's back to being plain old She looks down in shock at her revealing outfit; the swag bag is looped into the whip around her waist. She's awakened the Patience lets out another frightened as he eyes her, no longer recognizing her as a friend. The tiger gets to his feet menacingly, starts moving in for the kill. scrambles for a heavily which she frantically wrestles to open, getting through and just as the -- - - pounces on a -- but this time, it was like the tiger wanted to kill me... seated at Edna's kitchen table, finishing her tale. She's in tight-fitting jeans, along the sides, a cut-off top revealing her midriff. Safety pins hold the outfit together, but it looks good on her. is pulling out teacups, a on the burner. You were afraid -- you became its prey. The tiger shredded your clothes? No, did that myself. mean, remember doing it, but it wasn't really -- you know -- me. God, don't understand what's happening. I'm not sure how to put this -- it may be hard for you to accept -- but I'm something of an expert in these matters -- 54. What matters? Vampirism, lycanthropy... feligyny. (lost) Um... Feles, Latin for cat. Gynos, Greek for female. I'm a professor of folklore and mythology -- that is, used to be, until was denied tenure. They said my work was frivolous, but it was an all-male department, and -- well, it's a long, sordid story -- Edna, please. Can we talk about me? Oh, yes. The other night... think you may have... had an accident. very serious accident. Fatal. (as if to a child) But -- I'm not dead. Not anymore, dear. After you died, you were reborn. As a catwoman. dramatic takes the off the stove. Mint or chamomile? is beyond speech -- what Edna just said is impossible, and yet makes sense to her. - - open of a figure half-feline, half-female in a heavy 55. The cult of catwomen dates back to Ancient Egypt, where felines were first domesticated. suddenly staring in her reading glasses, and are seated before the research material spread on her desk, cups of tea before them. Edna patiently removes the Excuse me, Cicero. -- a of the The temple of the Catgod, Bast. Persian army destroyed it in the fifth century EDNA's tone is sad, as if this memory were fresh and painful. Legend has it that the priestesses became the first catwomen. The cats they'd worshipped -- Midnight's ancestors -- each gave up one of its nine lives to bring them back from the dead. images of with their cats. In the middle ages, cats and catwomen were regarded as evil. Nonsense, of course, witches were just single, independent women who broke society's rules. passes Patience -- print-out of a blurry of as seen in "Batman Returns." There were reports of a catwoman a while back on the East Coast -- like many, she turned to a life of crime -- but apparently she's disappeared or died. 56. studies the photo. How many have there been? No one can be sure. I've found references scattered through history, but catwomen tend to lead solitary, secretive lives. Hard to blame them, it seems most were murder victims. has heard enough. She rises, freaked out. was murdered? Why would anybody kill me? No, never did anything to... don't want to break the rules! She moves out of the room, Edna follows. - - paces, looks on sympathetically. She's like some demon, possessing me in the night, but -- but can keep it under control during the day -- Well, cats do sleep most of the day -- When she takes over -- it's like, she just does whatever she feels like, she doesn't care what people think -- Is that so bad? You don't understand -- I'm afraid she's going to hurt someone -- or get me killed. Again. is near tears. puts her arms around her. 57. There's got to be a way to make it stop. Some kind of, don't know, garlic or wolfsbane or something... (thinking) domestic cat can return to its natural state effortlessly. But once a cat's gone feral, it can never be tamed. Okay... that isn't helping. pulls back, looks Patience in the eye. Relax a little, learn to live with your inner cat. Even love her -- she has many admirable qualities -- integrate her into your life. If you accept the darker impulses, try to channel them -- maybe she'll come to be domesticated -- No. I'm going to fight her. I'm stronger than she is -- But you're only fighting yourself -- -- and I'm going to win. Patience heads out the door. Edna shakes her head; Patience isn't getting it. - across the entrance to the storefront. approaches warily, looking around to make sure no one's watching, nervous as hell. She sees an elderly and a through the window. Patience withdraws a from under her coat. She drops this beyond the police tape, on the door and comes out, looks down on the ground. He picks up the bag -- and sees the word written on the paper. Opening the bag, he finds -- that Catwoman stole. 58. - - comes out of a back door of her building with a still looking around nervously, moving toward the dumpster in the alley. She tosses in the bag -- the spills open to reveal pieces of the moves back for the door -- We've got to stop meeting like this. She spins to see approaching from his sedan, parked in a off the alley. is wary of him now, but he seems casual, smiling. She glances at the dumpster anxiously, he follows her sight-line, snooping as always. Doing some spring cleaning? Emptying the catbox, actually. quickly takes a step back from the dumpster. So -- that was a... surprising message you left for me. (embarrassed) Oh, well, uh -- musta been my cold medication talking. She sniffles and coughs unconvincingly. Well anyway, if you still wanted to get together -- maybe we could get a bite to eat Friday night? pretends to think it over. Yeah, maybe... - dances with overcome with joy. She holds the cat at arm's length, sings a of her own making: 59. Tom Lone, Tom Lone, called him on the phone -- now won't be alone -- isn't enjoying this, squeals and squirms free. Patience's smile fades a tick. It was Catwoman who made the call. What's he ever gonna see in me? has turned his butt to her, tail angrily. glances to glimpse -- who's just entering his apartment. quickly - - and enters. She keeps her head down, not wanting to be noticed. spots her, follows her through the showroom toward the elevators. Patience, what are you doing here? Just came by to clean out my desk. (studying her) Hm. Did you dye -- (alarmed) What? -- your hair. You look different somehow. Cooler. Patience shakes her head, uneasy. Are you going to the funeral? (peering at her) know, tinted contacts. 60. (shakes her head) What funeral? You didn't know? Dave Berger, your boss -- his whole place blew up, gas explosion, the night you got fired. (reeling) Oh my God. Yeah, life's short, huh. (snaps her fingers) The hottie neighbor! That glow, you're getting some, aren't you? Patience reaches the door to the elevators, waves Sally off and vanishes. Sally grins, figuring she's got it right. - - lands atop and personal in a is cleaning out her cubicle in the office. Noticing a flashing on her phone, she hits a and picks up the receiver. (filter) Patience, it's Dave... She winces at this voice from the grave, casts a sad glance toward his empty office. called the about your numbers -- Avenal went ballistic. I'll have to redo the spreadsheets, you must've screwed up somewhere. (a whisper) Like hell. End of final message. 61. Patience absorbs this a moment, then sits down and her with a -- the words, text and the names of a few in charge. leans forward, reading quickly, quietly to herself. 'Miracle ingredient in Beaunique... just a drop makes wrinkles vanish, blah blah blah...' But what is it? Patience types away, focused on the screen, finds something. We see the name Dr. Ivan Nevski, in charge of development. (types) Huh, not in the company directory. as she types the name into a reaches a of a in She finds a As the lettering changes to we go on key phrases: sits back, baffled and disturbed. - is sitting up in bed, reading a and around her. She squirms -- something is coming over her. Her eyes pop open. No. Oh no, not again. wrack her body, her back arches, she keeps fighting it, clenching her fists, struggling for control. her own are drawing from her palms. 62. - - grips the edge of the -- then vaults over the side, lands on her haunches, ready to rumble. Her outfit has a banana peel stuck to it. She wrinkles her nose, plucks this off, her tongue. She turns to prowling nearby. That girl has got to go. She glances up toward Lone's -- lets out a sexy -- and the fire escape. - at the window... the place is no response. She out a pane of glass and slithers in. Boy, you don't know what you're missing... She moves through the dimly lit, Spartan environment, able to see easily in the dark. She runs a over the strings of a finds a discarded button-down slips it on. She narrows her eyes when she finds a -- -- with his arm around a pretty Letting out a slashes out the girl's face. she opens the medicine chest, picks up men's toiletries. Finding a bottle of she sprays it in the air and sniffs, then makes a face, looking at the bottle -- -- by Avenal... Impressionistic V.O.s overlapping, echoing, repeating... all snippets of previously heard dialogue. -- chewing Patience out in the 63. Most catwomen were murder victims... was murdered? -- the This time we follow through on the moment of -- the ground hard. Why would anybody kill me? ... -- from lying on the street. drifts toward the a behind the wheel, seen from behind. Avenal went ballistic... -- comes out of the car, over Patience. have no choice. -- on the elevator, staring is right behind him, looking menacing as usual. You've got to go. - throws the against the wall. - sprawling dark for the night, an in iron scroll-work over the gate. a trained on the area in front of a ten-foot suddenly leaps onto the wall, blocking and batting at the now out of the camera's view, up the side of the wall and lands on all fours atop it. 64. -- scrambles up a trellis toward a second-story window. She leaps to the ledge, crouches, peering in. as a razor-sharp emerges and a into a - - The pops out and lands on soft reaches her arm in, unlatches the window, and swings inside into the darkness. moves stealthily, crouching, senses alert. - The dark hallway An amplified from a distance... Her emerge from her gloved fingertips, ready to rumble. rounds a corner toward a large formal staircase that wraps around a huge chandelier. She nears a door which is slightly ajar, pushes it open silently and enters -- - - -- nearing a huge, curtained slashes the curtain aside, to reveal -- curled up in the center of the otherwise unoccupied bed, away. The dog awakens, raises its head, and starts hisses at the creature. It cringes and shivers, seeking cover beneath a pillow. - & - As comes out of the bedroom, a emerges from the darkness swinging a -- 65. She's struck hard in the back and the head -- she topples forward, She hits a curled up, dazed, clutching her skull. -- looks down at her from the top of the stairs, wearing silk pajamas, golf club in hand. She descends cautiously, club raised. tentatively pokes at the prone, black-clad Catwoman with her foot. instantly As Laurel starts to bring the club down, Catwoman grabs it and yanks it away, hurling it into the foyer below, then grabs and slams her against the wall. Laurel seems utterly terrified - - Oh God, please -- please don't hurt me! studies the frightened woman, easing her grip. Laurel drops the act, and with a martial arts drives a and a into Catwoman in rapid succession -- flies over the banister, grabbing a hold of the chandelier. It swings in the open foyer -- creaks ominously, starts to rip from the ceiling -- snaps the whip around an upper just as - - rips loose from the ceiling. As it to the ground, swings back at and -- in the chest. goes down hard on the stairs. stands over her. looks up at her, outraged. The two women are of similar size and shape, well-matched. That was Venetian crystal, you bitch -- launches a karate at her, deflects it, lands a blow of her own. bitch is a dog. 66. The two engage in martial arts combat, moving down the stairs into the marble foyer. They exchange lines between You're tougher than you look. Took classes when was modeling in Hong Kong. (lands a good one, then:) Damn it, broke a nail. She's a skilled fighter, but is faster, more nimble, able to avoid her attacks. Laurel suddenly pauses, looking winded, ready to give up the fight. Had enough? (nods, eying her outfit) Is that a Gaultier? Catwoman looks down at her clothes, giving Laurel the chance to grab a which she hurls at her -- soaking Catwoman. She shakes off water. hate water. Suddenly enraged, she lunges toward who hits the ground -- but springs over her head, up to the landing where the yaps. She snatches it up by its collar, bares her near its face. shuts up, petrified. No, please -- not Tippy! Where's your husband? as Laurel takes this in. She lets out a little laugh. Georges? Why didn't you say you wanted him in the first place? 67. slowly puts the dog down, it scampers upstairs. You one of his girlfriends? springs back down, shoves Laurel against a wall, flexing her don't belong to anybody. Not my face, not my face! If can't get to Georges, can at least scratch up something he loves -- Georges doesn't love me! don't know if he ever did -- How sad. I'd cry if cared. He never took me seriously, was just a, a trophy. And now he's bored, he found himself a new toy -- I've heard this story before. Where is he? (thinking frantically) He never comes home anymore -- know he's got a box for the ballet Friday night -- can't wait that long. want him now. swear don't know where he is, he's left me! Oh God, my career is in the toilet, my whole life is over -- go ahead, tear me to pieces -- 68. is beginning to get hysterical. Catwoman lets out a frustrated and lets go of her, this is useless. She starts for the door, Laurel sniffs back tears then follows. Wait... try the factory. think that's where he meets Drano, his new mistress. I'll check it out. What do you want with him, anyway? It's personal. Are you going to kill him? Depends on my mood. I'll pay you to kill him. (surprised, impressed) And here thought you were just some brain-dead mannequin -- I'll even give you a lift, if you'll let me watch - - Sorry, work alone. But like your attitude. Catwoman disappears into the night. looks after her admiringly. - - plays, is on the sofa, in a silk robe, beside Drinks are on hand, Georges is attempting to neck with her. She pays him no mind, a remote in hand, rewinding a that plays on a plasma 69. dissolve into each other quickly -- she a finally pulls into the winners' circle in a pulls off her helmet and shakes her hair out. Discover the fountain of youth... in a jar. Beaunique by Avenal. hits pause, wrinkles her nose. look fat. We'll shoot another. Georges moves in on Drina, as the discreetly pans to the over the factory. - small crew of wearing and tend the elaborate industrial it's here. the color of through into a huge of squirt out of into screw down into their and are on amidst and is on the move. rake across a row of which spray multi-colored spin hydraulic kicks a twisting it sideways -- the rises from the clogged gears. slides open over a bank of and buttons. Her gloved fingers start at random. 70. a hand counter by rote as of neatly-packed jars of pass by his station. The man is half-asleep. a bit crooked on the belt, which is beginning to The next is missing half its bottles. An in b.g. The next is filled with in -- it gets his attention. He to stop the belt. is in shoots out of bubble out of overflowing sprays into the air from a disconnected dash about frantically, and - - in the factory is clearly visible through the window, but can't hear a thing -- he and are groping each other on the couch now. nearby is Georges finally pushes a talk button, angry. This had better be import -- oh my God. He's now looking out the window at the below. - The is off now, but the place is a wreck, of and of on the floor, etc. handful of panicking struggle to shut down a large which ominously. are pouring in, one speaks rapidly into a looking upwards as he climbs stairs to a network of catwalks overlooking the factory. Better stay in your office, sir, keep the door sealed. The saboteurs may still be on the premises. (filter) Who is responsible for this?! 71. As if on cue, down from above, planting a in the man's back -- the walkie-talkie flies from his grasp, she catches it in mid-air, holds it to her lips. That would be me, Georgy boy. looking down on the ruined factory as Catwoman appears on a catwalk just below the window, strutting her stuff, speaking into the walkie-talkie. Come out of your hole, let's have some fun. are approaching from various directions, moving to surround Catwoman. Are you crazy?! Who are you? Catwoman her kitten with a whip. You like my makeover? even had my nails done -- As the guards near, she drops the walkie-talkie, and the around a above the right past George, -- -- in the glass right in front of his face. He jumps backwards instinctively. She lands on a catwalk, near more They move in brandishing as the guards surround -- no easy escape. Here, kitty kitty... bares her teeth, lets out a menacing swings at her, she easily dodges the blow, bending backwards in a way impossible for a mere mortal. 72. Another guard at her, she grabs the end of the nightstick and pulls him toward her, snatching a can of off his belt and him in the face with it. He's blinded, lets out a cry as she tosses him aside. come at her at once. plays them against each other, and landing in their leaving Zorro-like across their uniforms whenever she gets the chance. and awed by the martial arts display. Find out where she got those boots. Georges shakes his head, seething. comes at her face, she twists her head, into the attacker's wrist, Ow! You fight like a girl! Duh. So saying, she shoves another into the path of a swinging which knocks him unconscious. She over the heads of the remaining attackers, she's about to get away when erupts over a Just shoot the bitch! has appeared on the catwalk, brandishing a wildly. dodges and dives from the catwalk, landing -- -- on her feet on a narrow below, one amongst several. She moves quickly, leaping easily from pipe to pipe -- barely miss her, causing and below to dive for cover. One the rumbling -- I'm not finished with you, Georgy! So saying, she dives into a large leading downward. 73. - - rockets downwards, the just behind her. - like a and the with - - from the ceiling with she topples through and lands on a of which we hear is instantly on all fours on the ground, breathing hard. She moves through the dark room, becoming aware of -- flips on a -- -- revealing containing instinctively and in their direction -- they shrink back from the glass. stenciled are stored against a far wall, near and spots a of names and numbers on a bulletin board. She snatches this, studying it -- -- the name with an and - Neatly kept, colorful architecture. moves down sloping eaves and swings into a turret window. - moves stealthily inside the dimly lit place. It's upscale, expensively furnished. She scans the room, sees -- 74. his back turned, apparently dozing in a desk chair. spins him in his chair to confront him -- Ivan Nevski -- His head tilts back -- she's face-to-face with a he's been shot a couple of times in the chest. He's bluish, eyes glazed -- very dead. (annoyed) You're no help. She the air, turns toward -- -- a in the Catwoman moves toward this, studies the and then reaches in and snatches out -- -- the of a The cover reads - The book is hot to the touch, she it, studies it. Yersinia Pestis... protrudes from between the pages, she plucks this out. -- with a of his name in the caption below. is reading, absorbed, when -- swings open -- and a with a ring of keys step inside -- Dr. Nevski, are you all -- aah! They see She bolts for the window and vanishes while the still fumbles for his gun. - Lush vegetation and tropical sunlight through walls of netting in this immense camouflage tent. 75. racks of RPGs, a and a large military a well-dressed, heavyset man with a in his mouth, accompanied by a couple of is showing off a crate of to a couple of in combat fatigues. They speak in rapid examining the guns, sighting them, etc. excuses himself to answer a ringing He speaks with a vague European (on phone) Acquisitions -- - is on his cell phone on the main The place is a as clean up the mess Catwoman made. (on phone) This is supply. There's been a slight complication, my employer wishes to move up the exchange -- tomorrow night. (snorts) Impossible -- there are issues of transport, available funds -- We're willing to adjust the price. But if you can't pick up the goods tomorrow, we'll have to take our business elsewhere. This isn't your first 'complication.' unlocks a door to -- - rises to reveal of 76. waves to at the controls of a -- Angel still has dried flecks of on his skin. He pulls forward, ready to load the into a waiting (on phone) It'll be eliminated, like the others. We just don't want to take any chances. - of made to look far more menacing and mean. Catwoman has struck again -- of a sheet-covered being wheeled out of Nevski's duplex. a This costumed criminal has now added murder to her resume of mischief and mayhem... -- sprawled on the couch in baggy sweat-clothes, reacts to this with a stunned expression. of from the club. -- she attacked us for no reason! And her outfit, mean, that whole & thing is so 90s -- moves to answer, attention still on the She throws the door open quickly -- takes a step backward, hands up defensively. Just me -- Oh my God. Our date... 77. (amused) Way to cover. Patience looks from Lone to the behind her -- Catwoman. Who is she? quickly grabs a remote and the She then looks back at Lone, remembering. -- I'll only be a minute. She quickly grabs some clothing, darts toward the bathroom. At the last moment she spots the on the floor and -- -- it as she moves into the bathroom. steps inside, can see his apartment across the way. He calls through the half-open door as she changes: By the way, last night -- you didn't happen to see or hear anything -- my apartment was broken into. No, sorry -- never look out the window. Weird, they didn't take anything, just broke a bottle of after-shave and slashed a picture of my sister. getting dressed. She smiles, delighted. Your sister, that's -- (catching herself) -- really a shame. has moved to the kitchen table, where the numerous and are spread out. -- diagram of a a drawing of a the entry 78. What's Yersinia Pestis? Bubonic plague. Bubonic plague? Why are you -- ? as she exits the bathroom, looking good. It's sort of a hobby of mine... She trails off, stopping in her tracks as she sees who's holding up her with a dubious expression. (off-handedly) Oh, had kind of a kinky boyfriend once. takes the whip and casually tosses it aside, but Lone's suspicions are fully aroused. Where should we eat? dunno... you like sushi? - comes through a passing and seated nearby, drinks before them. The curtain after him, distracting So what've you been up to lately? Me? Oh. Not much. You know, sitting around my apartment, watching television. As she speaks, she involuntarily like a kitten at the swinging 79. Really? Is that so hard to believe? What about you? Catwoman. Patience starts, folds her hands in front of her. It's the case I've been working on. Oh yeah. guess heard about it. I'm not surprised. Talk about your media circus. Well, she is interesting, isn't she? Kind of a... colorful character? She's a thief and a killer. (heatedly) don't believe that. (covering) mean -- whatever happened to innocent until proven guilty? seems a little taken aback at her vehemence. Just then, a places a between them. Guess went a little crazy ordering. It's refreshing. lot of women won't let a man see them eat. Right, then we go home and binge on Haagan-Dazs. 80. During the following, Lone meticulously mixes soy sauce and wasabi, uses chopsticks, etc. Patience simply peels the fish off the rice and pops it in her mouth, as if eating potato chips, then licking her fingers like a cat licking its paw. You do hide things, don't you. You may seem all sweet and shy, but you've got a secret wild side. Women in general, you mean. Right. Women in general... (watching her reaction) You know, actually saw Catwoman the other night. From a distance. Goofy costume. Really? heard it was... sexy. In a way. So it could be sexier... with what, maybe a wide belt? Why so interested? You brought it up. studies her for a few seconds. He seems on the verge of saying something important. But instead: You want that toro? is already reaching for another piece of sushi -- with lightning reflexes, grabs his hand to stop him -- he looks up at her, surprised. She backs off with a smile: No no, it's yours. She eyes the fish hungrily as he eats it. 81. - and walk close together, near the water. Gonna have to get back to the station, I'm working nights. Catwoman again? Afraid so. But have a feeling she'll be in custody within the week. (alarmed) Why do you say that? Individuals who feel compelled to act out through an animal alter-ego -- bats, birds, bugs, there have been a number of cases in other cities -- they catch themselves. Take too many risks, think they can play with the cops. See, they like to be watched... He's staring right at her now. Patience looks away. -- vanishing behind a cloud. become for a blink. pauses, standing close. Sorry. Seems like all can do is talk about work. spins on him, a glint in her eye. So stop talking. So saying, she throws her arm around his neck, the other around his back, pulls him close for a Lone takes only a moment to respond -- it's a good one -- until -- as her involuntarily emerge, tearing right through his shirt and an inch down his back -- 82. jerks away, looking back over his shoulder -- Ow! clutches her hands to her face, horrified at what she's done, starts backing away -- I'm really sorry, don't know what got into me, -- I've got to go. She's on the run. moment later, the surprised Lone pursues, rounding a corner... Patience, wait -- But she's already vanished. - - is breathing hard, blinking rapidly, as she paces Edna's floor. Edna follows nervously, trying to calm her. It's happening, it's happening again. It's not even dark yet -- you said she could only come out at night! didn't say that! Patience, you made these rules up yourself -- a cat is a cat 24 hours a day, they just go hunting at night -- And she's after Georges Avenal -- if she finds him, she's going to kill him, know it -- Stop talking about her like she's someone else! She's you! beat -- Patience is in denial about this. Edna, you've gotta... tie me up or something, lock me in the attic -- 83. don't have an attic -- closet, the pantry, something! Please... we have to keep the cat in tonight. - - stands in the opening of the angled storm cellar doorway, looking down the stairs sadly. Sure you don't need a blanket, dear? at the foot of the stairs in this cold, dank space, hugging herself, rocking back and forth. Just... lock... the door. Edna quickly the door, throws a It's extremely down below. Patience starts to pace. We see her features contort with pain as she fights this interior battle. During this monologue, her voice becomes huskier, more Catwoman-like. I'm not a bad person... I'm not a killer... I'm not evil... not like Georges Aaavenal... His name becomes a harsh She fights to get a grip. He's a murderer... he did this to me... it's all his fault. Her eyes elliptical for a moment -- He has to die. - - throughout the place from heater vents in the floor. In response, go nuts -- prowling, pacing, bouncing off the walls, picking up the 84. - - sits at her table over a simple meal, attempts to read a but it's pretty hopeless. She shuts her eyes, covers her ears. & - The sour pokes her head out an Edna, I've had it with your damn cats! I'm calling the cops! She the window to find -- -- bolted shut. begins to at the metal, slowly working the free. emerges, sees what's happening, dashes over. She carries a Midnight! Shoo! Midnight but retreats sulkily. Edna reaches the nearly free bolt, is about to replace it and lock it when she hears a small, timid from below, through the door: Edna? Edna, is that you? Yes, dear, I'm here. Edna, it worked. think... think I've beaten her. I'm Patience again. I've won. Oh, I'm so glad... Edna looks terribly relieved as she throws aside the bolt and begins to open the cellar door. But before she can -- -- knocking her off her feet. We hear her voice as she retreats: Sucker. 85. - in progress -- "Giselle." Lithe spin gracefully across the stage, a rustic village setting. a to one side. and in formal clothes. is absorbed in the performance, looks bored, wrinkles her nose. What is this about? Ssh. (impatient whisper) Giselle is mistreated by a cruel prince and kills herself. Later, the souls of betrayed women come back from the grave for revenge. makes a puts on a and is soon bobbing her head to faint - - passes, an on the side -- it's been across the length of it. to find crouched on the roof of the bus. She leaps off from the still-moving bus -- -- onto the of a passing the other way -- -- and finally landing at the curb near -- classical-looking in front. creeps amongst bushes, approaching the building. Numerous patrol the entrance -- no way to get past them. creeps around the perimeter, looking for another way in. By the curb she spots -- alone, near a parked lighting a cigarette. Those things'll kill you. She the cigarette out of his hand, him into the and leaps on top of him. 86. straddles bangs his head against a cement curb. -- the plague -- what's it for? have no idea what you're -- She whams his head again. Tell me about Xavier Bartok. How do you know -- She his head again. I'm asking the questions. -- can't tell you -- She bares her over his eyes. Then it's time to brush up on your Braille. No, no, not my eyes! Xavier, he's the one who's buying the stuff! When? The deal goes down tomorrow night -- at the Avenal offices -- Wrong. Your boss won't live to see it. She his head hard again, loses consciousness. Thanks for your help. 87. moves around the side of the building, keeping low, ducking behind parked cars. Fewer here, but the place looks impregnable, no way to scale the walls. She tries an -- locked, no good. She hisses in frustration, starts to move on when -- behind her. spins to see -- her face hidden with dark glasses and a wide-brimmed hat. She gestures frantically. Catwoman darts inside. - - whips off the hat and glasses, gives a girly hug to Catwoman, who pulls back immediately. knew you'd come. Laurel leads Catwoman through this basement boiler room. He's with his bimbo in a box to the right of the stage. But there's all kinds of security -- he's pretty scared of you. He should be. How much do you know about your husband's operation? know he's built an empire out of women's inadequacy and self-hatred -- Yeah, yeah, but the secret ingredient in his face cream -- it's black plague bacteria. He's selling it to an arms dealer. (touching her face) Oh my God... And he's committed murder to protect his secret. 88. Nothing he does would surprise me anymore. He's a monster. You should've seen the pre-nup, don't get a dime -- has reached an emergency cuts her off, bolting upward. I'll take it from here. - - slinks along a hallway, past a couple of bored young They give her a sidelong look. Cats is next month... are clustered near a blocking her access to the right-hand side of the hall. bares her teeth in frustration. She hurries toward a the sign, - She slips past the rope, moves to a far door. - through the ballet. appears behind them in the box, snatches from the woman's lap and scans the hall -- from box to box -- finding in a box on the opposite side of the hall. is rising, heading out the door. climbs up the around the box, levering herself upward to the elaborate that wraps around the top of the hall -- in various dramatic poses. as climbs and creeps near the ceiling, moving over the above the stage, heading toward at ground level spots her -- he lifts a radio to his lips, calling for backup. The below is reaching a crescendo. are filing in from the back of the theatre, trying to be discreet. 89. still absorbed in the ballet. Suddenly lands in the empty seat beside him, staring at the stage herself. whisper: love this part. spins, startled -- and she across his cheek. The is so loud, no one hears his rushes for the exit -- but gets there first, shoves a under the doors. Let's not be interrupted. She advances on him, drips from the on his cheek, staining his tuxedo shirt. Red's a good color on you. At that, she grabs Georges and slams him against the wall of the box, behind a curtain, partly concealed from view. The increasingly hard. as wraps a hand around Georges' throat, the digging into his skin. He gasps: No -- please -- could rip out your throat... Why -- why kill me? Because you deserve it. And because can. -- holding Georges, but still not delivering the deathblow. spies from the back of the theatre. Under her breath: C'mon honey... just do it. trembles on Georges' throat. His eyes well up with tears, his expression pleading, desperate. Suddenly -- 90. releases him, throws him to the floor. Damn it. can't. and the flies open, with behind them. leaps to the lip of the box, turns and then -- -- jumps down to the middle of the stage, amidst the charge up the aisles -- does a pirouette, bows and bolts into the wings. After a puzzled the waves his baton and gets the show going again. looks agonized -- Catwoman was so close. - - as darts between stored and from a bowling over costumed Seeing blocking an exit, she dodges between scrambles up a -- track her from below -- she leaps between sandbagged as the drop, scrambling higher onto the -- - inappropriate and descend and rise again. dodge and weave as a (think Cats) descends in the midst of the - - darts effortlessly across the overhead grid, when -- Freeze! 91. anticipating her move, has climbed a ladder to the grid. He trains a gun on her -- freezes. She stares at him, breathing hard, taking a moment to come to grips with this adversary. advances on her, stepping gingerly. You're under arrest -- He steps on a flimsy support, which starts to give way. Catwoman is alarmed. Watch out! sways, losing his balance, she springs and grabs his gun arm, saving him. beat as they look at each other, then -- -- she the gun out of his hand, tosses it aside, then grabs his tie and pulls his face to her to his cheek. Tag, you're it. She bounds away, comfortable on the narrow railings. Lone pursues, moving more carefully now. Accompanied by the ballet music, the two perform their private dance, high above the and winds up in a corner on a no way out from here, but for a 25-foot drop to -- where await, pointing upward. advances, he has her trapped. He pulls Handcuffs. Yummy. He lunges at her -- she dodges, kicks a leg out from under him. No slouch at fighting, Lone recovers, plants a kick in her mid-section. She gasps, surprised. You play rough. This isn't a game. He charges at her, but she parries a blow, lands a across his shoulder. As he comes at her again, she jumps and grabs an overhead cable, swinging away -- 92. Lone has too much momentum, he loses balance, about to go over the edge -- swings back like a pendulum, wrapping her legs around his neck, saving him from falling. She swings him back over the platform, tries to kick him off, but he grabs her legs, pulling her and -- go out, fly as they hit the platform together, she lands straddling him, catching the just before it strikes the mesh. Be careful! That thing hits the metal, we're both fried! leans close, whispers: knew there was a spark between us. She turns and flings the cable away, it dangles free of the mesh floor, still spitting second later, -- has slapped a handcuff on her wrist, the other cuff over his own. spins back on him, looking hurt. He reaches to pull off her mask. She slaps his hand. Please, it's our first date. wouldn't want the mystery to go out of our relationship. struggles to push her off, but she keeps her thighs locked around him. He finally rolls on top of her. We don't have a relationship. (mock sadness) You men love the chase, but once you catch us, you always lose interest. As she speaks, on her cuffed hand -- her fingers squeeze together, her hand slithers out of the cuff like a cat's paw. 93. rises, tries to pull Catwoman to her feet -- but he comes up with an empty, dangling From the ground, plants a kick in his back from behind, he falls forward and his into a Catwoman winces, sounding a lot like Patience: Sorry. She's on her feet, ready to scamper off, but -- have made it to the grid, blocking every way down - - have covered every exit below. glares up at her. It's over. And here thought we were hitting it off... With that, she leaps and grabs the dangling which from the ceiling -- She to the floor, still holding the surround her, moving in quickly, guns drawn -- She backs toward the wall, near a Show of hands -- who can see in the dark? She lifts her own hand daintily, then violently into the -- a a -- then -- We hear from the theatre, people and a series of and as Catwoman takes out the nearest adversaries -- -- have a pale outline, their as dispatches her unseeing opponents. 94. - & - swings open and darts out. She's almost home free when behind her -- staggering out from the bushes where she clocked him, his handgun after her. stumbles and rolls, but keeps moving. - - holds a few in her arms, quietly, tissue close at hand. There's a sound of at the window, she moves to open it, revealing -- exhausted and bruised from her battle. She crawls in the window, as Edna stares in astonishment. Patience? Not exactly. She throws herself on the end of the bed, curling up with the other cats, examining her injuries. She finds a bloody where Angel's bullet grazed her skin. moves closer. Oh dear. You've been shot. Edna hurries into the bathroom and emerges with a small begins tending to Catwoman's wound, still sniffling. It's nothing to cry about. No, it's my cats. Last night, all that noise -- the neighbors complained. Animal Control says they're a health hazard... Piss on 'em. They're coming tomorrow to take them away, have them destroyed -- 95. It won't happen. promise. studies Catwoman, speaks softly, worried. Did you do it? Did you kill him? shakes her head, disgusted with herself. wanted to -- but couldn't. actually... felt sorry for him. Because you're still Patience Price. Don't remind me. That girl is so weak. No, she isn't. You know that. Catwoman makes an exasperated noise, then could really use a nap. So saying, she rolls over and falls asleep at once. - in borrowed clothes, moves toward the entrance of her building, limping and tired. She climbs the steps. Patience. wearing approaches tentatively. Oh! Hi. Listen-- about last night... Forget it. um... listen, I'm sorry about this. 96. He takes a few steps back as -- -- a to a halt, coming up on the sidewalk in front of Patience's building. armed with leap out, train their weapons on her. Hands in the air! throw open the entrance door behind her, ready. cornered, looks shocked and betrayed. She raises her hands timidly. removes his shades -- we now see he has a nasty his face swollen. Still, a hint of regret in his voice: Patience Price, Catwoman, you're under arrest. You have the right to remain silent... Patience's stunned expression -- - Grim-looking methodically ferry from Edna's open front door to a in front. scurries helplessly from cage to cage, saying goodbye, fighting back tears. slashes at a and escapes. But a less agile, is shoved into a As the -- - - is in a alone in a small, dingy room with the usual one-way mirror and table. is opened by a and enters. This is all a mistake -- Tom, you know me! 97. (shakes his head sadly) One thing you learn in this line of work -- you never really know anybody, not completely. (professional tone) You're being charged with vandalism, burglary and the murder of Doctor Ivan Nevski -- He was dead when... um, Ivan who? (a beat, floundering) You, you have no proof that -- what are you doing? is unbuttoning his shirt. He pulls down one side to reveal his shoulder. These scratches were inflicted last night by Catwoman. Forensics also tested this scratch -- He turns around to show the claw-mark she left when they kissed. He turns to face her, rebuttoning his shirt. They were made by the same implement. So this whole time, you've been flirting, buying me dinner, acting like you were interested -- was a suspect? It was just some cat and mouse thing? LONE's a little offended, his tone becomes more aggrieved: No, not at first -- really bought the act, vulnerable girl all alone in the big city -- Sorry if don't fit into your damsel in distress fantasy. That's not what -- 98. Real people are a little more complicated. Look, didn't want to believe it, but -- guess a strong woman can be intimidating to a certain kind of man -- Did you really think wasn't gonna recognize you in a little mask? I'm not blind. So if they don't need rescuing, you better lock them up yourself -- They're now talking over each other, sounding just like bickering lovers. glances at the mirror, embarrassed; they're obviously being watched. Through his teeth: Knock it off. (flat, Sgt. Friday) It'll go a lot easier on you if you just confess now. I've been doing some investigating of my own. real crime. Georges Avenal is stockpiling a variant of black plague bacteria -- Oh yes, your little hobby. Please, Patience -- It's a bioweapon! Ivan Nevski developed it, they must've killed him to keep it a secret -- So now you've constructed a paranoid fantasy with your former boss at the center. disgruntled employee -- 99. The deal's going down tonight, they're meeting an arms dealer named Xavier Bartok at the Avenal offices -- You're hallucinating. Georges Avenal is world famous, worth millions, a respected businessman -- why in God's name would he get involved in arms trafficking? don't know! Why don't you ask him? Enough. Are you denying you're Catwoman? (looks away from him) It doesn't matter what say. You'll make me whoever you want me to be. looks at her for a moment, then exits, leaving Patience to study her own defiant expression in the mirror. - - paces in her own talking to herself: Damn it, it's getting dark out, where are you...? She stares at her hand, trying to will claws to appear -- nothing. deep breath, concentrating, mantra-like -- am Catwoman... am... She opens her eyes -- it's no good. 100. - gloriously handsome stands beside a at an altar. beams at the couple, nods at the young man, who throws back the veil -- the bride is -- caught a piece of An Cut! as takes the gum out of her mouth, we're at a 35mm etc. wasn't ready! Beside the harried sits butterfly over the scratches in his face. We're gonna be at this all night. Drina approaches, looking for a place to put her gum. Line?! (wearily) do. With Beaunique.' She nods, crouches and sticks the gum has a cell phone to her ear, leans toward Georges, speaks quietly. It's Detective Lone, apparently they've caught the Catwoman. Georges smiles, breathes a sigh of relief. He's coming by later, says he wants to ask you about another matter. Georges narrows his eyes and cocks his head at this. 101. - - lying in her bunk, miserable. We hear the sound of a distant, almost as if it were in her head. She opens her eyes to see -- mostly in shadow, pacing on the other side of a high, mesh-covered window. for a moment we see the Patience -- now -- springs to her feet and studies the of her cell. As she did at the zoo, she begins to ease her body between them... - - Rows of desks, and in a bustling, crowded bullpen area, a hive of activity. enters in her -- she can't fight her way through, so she tries a different approach. She moves stealthily through the room, using her heightened reflexes to avoid being seen. It's an intricate choreography of split-second timing, turned heads and diverted glances. She ducks down to crouch as a spins idly in his swivel chair, circles behind him.... rolls a signed across a desktop, knocking over a As the bends to retrieve it, steps lightly over her desk -- -- and makes it - just above the rooftops. rises in full regalia, silhouetted, then away. - from a reversed to a above -- leaps through it and lands on the floor in a of glass. She hurries towards the bypasses at them as she does. She turns a corner and finds -- 102. behind bars. flings the cages open, the grateful stream out. - and the at the altar. b.g., we glimpse a moving low between the nearby do. She turns holds up a With Beauni -- her in the Drina clutching her spilling on her wedding dress -- No! just had this fixed! and the are both out of their chairs, stunned at the sight of -- in the midst of sudden on the set. She reaches into her bodice and removes a small and duck for cover as -- in the chest, he collapses, dead instantly. throws down the gun and sprints behind an and out of the church. - with only and a weaves quickly around slower traffic. - drives like a maniac, looking over her shoulder. She lets out a sudden of delight -- she did it. 103. She hits a button, we hear a phone as she off the -- and a it's We hear Are we on? Oh honey, we are so on. - a photographing George's corpse. Nearby, other bag the is here, on his cell phone, heading for the exit. (on phone) Yeah, we got a couple dozen witnesses, it was Catwoman. Looks like it might be the same weapon that killed Nevski... - moves outside, past outside this urban church, still on the phone. (on phone) Nah, couldn't have been Price after all, musta been a lab error. You better cut her loose right away or she's gonna have a hell of a lawsuit on her hands... yeah, be there soon, just gotta tie up a couple loose ends. He climbs in his sedan and moves off. - pulls up near the entrance to the office tower. As he gets out, he hears a coming in overhead and looks up to see -- The sign high above, a approaching the helipad. 104. moves toward the showroom entrance, tries the door -- locked. He sees the entrance to the moves down the ramp. - - touches down. and emerge. Two mercs carry all are armed with In addition to chopper there's a up here and the of still in the cat suit but without the mask, is waiting. approaches, a small in hand. Laurel's manner is cold, professional, all business -- she couldn't be more different from the victimized female we met up here at the outset. Your husband? He won't be a problem. Ever again. And I'm not even a suspect. She gestures to her outfit. Xavier nods. American women. I'm always impressed. Let's do some business. They head down the stairs. off the roof, to the roof of an adjacent, lower -- and finds -- - She paces, breathing hard, steeling herself for something, looking toward the Avenal building. hangs halfway down the building, but it's quite a distance from this roof edge. can do this... right? 105. She's addressing who non-commitally licks a paw. moves to the far end of the roof and sprints toward the edge, leaps for all she's worth -- sails through the air in a perfect arc, toward the window-washer rig... but she's going to fall short and plunge twenty stories. At the last second, she pulls out her whip and snaps it out around -- -- the cables of the rig. against the side of the building, dangling from the whip. Ow. She struggles to pull herself upward. - - An opens -- of handles the suitcase. He starts to count the stacks of money, testing random bills with a Meanwhile, Xavier's are moving aside the and One yanks down the frilly to reveal -- dozens of them in a cutout portion of wall, more than we've seen before. Laurel's been hiding them here all along. Xavier opens his briefcase -- there's a inside. May So saying, plucks a from an arrangement. He seals it into a clear moves to a random canister, and attaches a tightly to the Cautiously, he releases a small amount of into the container. -- as the makes contact with the the turn then appear. Abruptly, the petals and The flower is a shriveled mess in seconds. 106. Nice. carefully removes the nozzle, nodding appreciatively at the canisters. Avenal should think about getting out of cosmetics altogether -- chemical weapons are a growth industry. with slightly nervous looks, begin carefully moving the canisters out of the penthouse, up the stairs to the helicopter. -- it's Look what found. He lifts the semi-conscious from the floor -- the man's been bound, gagged and blindfolded with there's a bruise on his head. flashes He's a cop. Found him sniffing around the basement. (exasperated) Oh beautiful. (waving a hand) Put him in there for now... Angel drags into a near the make-up mirror, shoves him inside and closes the door. What are we going to do about this? (a shrug) I'll be flying over water. could drop him off. Laurel nods and smiles gratefully. - holds a button on the which rises toward the roof. 107. - - methodically move canisters from the penthouse, up the stairs, to the on the helipad, where a waits at the controls -- the spin lazily. #1, winded, calls to the who's absorbed in a copy of #1 Wanna pitch in? (not looking up) Not my job. #1 exchanges a look with #2, shakes his head, deposits his canister in the chopper. As he moves back for the stairs he hears moving He heads toward the far edge of the helipad, ready. He sees the of the window washing rig come to a he looks cautiously over the edge... -- the has come to a stop just a few feet below the rooftop. But it's empty. -- is clawing her way around the corner of the building, just below a narrow She's dangling precipitously over a forty story fall. She approaches a into the below the helipad. -- on in the suit, chatting with while the ferry her eyes widen with the realization -- Laurel?! You cow... - - slips a few of into his pocket and an It's all here. I've taken my cut. All right, Wesley. opens a offering a to Xavier: 108. Shall we? takes a cigar, sniffs it. With mock concern: Cuban. Aren't these illegal? They both chuckle as they head out to the garden area. - - #3 and #4 are in the back of the chopper, securing the canisters. #1 and #2 head toward the stairs, for another load. #1, in the rear, passes a low out from behind him, wraps around his throat -- he can't cry out as it him back behind the duct. We hear a nasty One down. #2 turns around. #2 Tony...? No sign of his buddy. He moves back up the stairs and -- -- with Merc #1's He rolls down the stairs. - - and have their backs to the stairs, their as the unconscious hits the ground a short distance behind them. They don't notice. Laurel stretches her arms luxuriously, enjoying the feel of the wind. Xavier studies Laurel, a bit lasciviously. Free at last... to eat what want, wear what want, look like a slob if want... You have no idea how good it feels. was thinking after this business is over, you might spend some time with me on my island -- Thanks, no. I'm through with men. 109. - - #3 and #4 emerge from the chopper, looking around for the others. As they start to circle the chopper -- -- swings around from behind them, hanging from the slowly spinning she from behind and sends them flying head-first to the asphalt. Merc #3 is knocked cold, Merc #4 rolls over on the ground, behind him. But when the blade comes around again, she's gone. He has no idea what hit them. - - and both react to the dropping their cigars, hurrying for the stairs. - - leaps out, a ready. What the hell are you shooting at? #4 don't know! clings to the Seeing a -- -- her pierces the and starts to spurt out. - - and have emerged from the penthouse, alarmed, just as and nearly trip over the groaning #2. What the hell --? Xavier takes the man's he and Laurel hurry up to the helipad. - - and reach the top of the stairs, followed by and just as -- 110. leaps down to the penthouse level from the helipad. The group is stunned to see the injured men. #1 is crawling out from behind the angrily grabs a from the dazed #3. To Xavier: Where did you find these clowns?! #4 and scout the helipad's perimeter, guns at the ready. nervously backs toward the stairs. If it's all right with you, Laurel, I'd just as soon be going... Xavier is looking around frantically. These are good soldiers. It would take a team of men -- (realizing) Or one woman. Look what found! All spin to see -- standing at the edge of the helipad, above the sheer drop, holding out to either side of her. She has a lit clenched between her teeth. Behind her, the is with approaching dawn. are trained on Catwoman, except Laurel's. Don't shoot, you idiots! She'll drop the money-- They don't lower their guns. Catwoman narrows her eyes, speaks around the cigar. Henchmen, Laurel? How tacky. 111. She jerks one of the cases -- the latch has been loosened, it and into the wind -- from the rooftop to the city streets below. reacts in agony. No, please-- don't do that again! drops the emptied case and pulls the cigar from her mouth with a distasteful expression. Eying Laurel: Don't you hate it when somebody shows up at a party wearing the same dress? advances on Catwoman. Let's face it -- we're alike, you and me. Catwoman ignores her, shouts to and his men: You guys gotta be careful with this stuff. It's a living thing, you know, a bacteria. If it gets too hot -- it dies. looks from Catwoman to the pooling on the helipad, putting two and two together. He jerks his head at his mercs -- they start backing away toward the stairs. is still focused on the money. Let's split the rest of the money -- and there's more where that came from -- Tempting offer... We would make a pretty good team. Beyond the law, fighting the yoke of male oppression, sisters under the skin... nods hopefully. looks thoughtfully at the cigar in her hand. 112. Nah, still have to live with myself. So saying, she flicks the to the helipad -- the spreading pool of gasoline -- sprint to or as -- in a glorious is thrown across the helipad by the showered with The men are hightailing it out of there, but Laurel gets slowly to her feet, machine gun ready, bent on revenge. Spotting darting through the and toward the stairs, a volley with a of rage and charges after her in pursuit. - - hurries down the stairs to the garden, at -- as she darts into the penthouse. Catwoman's nearly hit, showered with broken glass. - - The roof ominously, the room is thick with charges in, sees movement near and -- goes down with a laughs triumphantly, moves to find -- dead on the floor. winces. Sorry, Angel. leaps at Laurel from behind, the goes flying. The two women into the shattering them in the course of their struggle. Laurel keeps going for the gun, but Catwoman won't let her get near it. 113. - - and his hurry from the elevators. They've almost made it out the exit to safety when an erupts -- What is tha -- leaps onto his back, sinking his fangs in. beat later, of attack the men; they scream as they try to pry frenzied felines from their flesh. - - and continue their battle. Catwoman gets Laurel down, near victory, when -- from the window penetrate the and catch full in the face. She backs away, squinting, disoriented -- this gives Laurel the chance to recover. No -- need more time -- gets in a devastating that sends reeling. At the same moment, the He's still gagged and blindfolded, hands and feet bound, but he's struggling, now. takes this in, shocked. She moves to Lone's side. Tom... Laurel picks up the machine gun. are spreading from the ceiling, You know this guy? Catwoman raises a hand, curls her fingers -- but no claws emerge. She looks toward the where -- -- is now fully visible. Laurel strides over and away from Lone -- she rolls across the ground helplessly. Laurel casually points the weapon at Lone's head. No! Don't do it! 114. Why not? He's just -- a man. Catwoman starts to rise, steps on Lone's throat, the gun still pointed at his head. Move a muscle and you won't have a date for the prom. Catwoman freezes, sits back down again. Laurel smiles. It's amazing. We're the stronger sex -- but men are like Kryptonite. They make us so weak... She increases her pressure on Lone's throat, he Catwoman sounds just like Patience now. Stop it, please -- you'll kill him. Don't worry, know exactly how much a man can take. Laurel takes her foot off of Lone, he struggles for air. She moves in on Catwoman. You know, was actually starting to admire you. with the tries to crawl away, at her lips. When think of all the guys had to... use. She in the stomach. And there you were, clawing your way up on your own. But you let me down. She her again. 115. ask one little favor -- but no, had to take care of Georges myself. And now... this. You've ruined everything. She pulls halfway to her feet and her face. then the top of the and it off -- looks up at her weakly, eyes rolling. blinks, a shocked double-take, backs away. No... it's impossible... you're dead. PATIENCE's crumpled figure recalls the position of her body lying on the pavement, the night she was murdered. Her eyes go wide as she puts it together. Oh my God... it was you... - near Patience's body. the The opens and steps out, looking at Patience's body on the ground with disgust. You were behind the wheel that night... - - leaps at with blinding speed, It was you! is overwhelmed by the sudden turn. knocks the from Laurel's hands. Laurel dodges her kicks and blows, pushed closer to the flames. 116. What do you want, an apology? Of course it was me, it was always me -- ran the operation right under Georges' nose, couldn't let some frumpy accountant blow the whistle when was so close -- slashes at Laurel's head with a -- she peels off -- it's like a form-fitting "Mission: Impossible" Beneath, the skin is with and lets out a hideous No! My face! knocks her to the ground, straddles her. The fight's gone out of now, she clutches at her disfigured features. Patience/Catwoman cocks her head, looking at the shredded hanging from her claws. So I'm not the only one hiding behind a mask. was the first to try Beaunique -- was over 30, had nothing to lose. When the symptoms started to show, it was too late... As she speaks, Laurel peels away the remains of the So you upped production and sold the stuff to an arms dealer. Life hands you lemons, you make lemonade. gives way, blocking the part of the collapses -- this gives Laurel the chance to squirm out from under But instead of going for the gun, she runs straight for the make-up mirror. 117. runs to Lone's side, pulling him away from the spreading flames toward the She the tape that binds his wrists. meanwhile, opens a hidden by her mirror, revealing numerous She begins to apply a new one, using adhesive, smoothing wrinkles, hiding the seams, etc. Nearby, her starts to and turn to chunks of falling. is prying open the elevator doors. Laurel, you better get out of here -- In a minute -- have to finish putting on my face -- on the empty shaft -- almost as an afterthought, snatches up her pulling to her with her other arm. gives way with a -- - - leaps into the open elevator shaft, has his arms around her -- together they slide down a as from above. - - is now trapped in the make-up alcove, illuminated by flames surrounding her, but she doesn't seem to care, working frantically to get a new face on. She whispers a mantra: You're still beautiful... you'll always be beautiful... and the remains of the come through the ceiling, obliterating Laurel. - charge into the building from a number of As they do so, we see the fleeing. 118. - - and the are on the ground, and They raise their hands for the puzzled, gun- wielding Thank God you're here... - - in this parking garage. pulls out, he seems woozy, his arms around her neck. They collapse together against a wall. She tears the off Lone's mouth. He winces. Who are you? hesitates, about to answer -- but instead gives him a long kiss. Then she darts reels from the kiss, then collects himself and pulls the duct tape from his eyes. -- he's alone, no sign of her. - as hustle and the into police vehicles. until we see the ruined of the building, The in has been knocked out by the conflagration ... for a few moments the sign reads until the whole thing and - - lies on the couch, a hand over her eyes, asleep in a robe. She stirs as a laps at her face. As she sits up, dozens of are all over her, begging for attention. She laughs and cries at the same time then sees -- masked again, who has entered behind the cats. Thank you. 119. promise is a promise. Her tone is soft, more like Patience's. takes in the blood on her, her torn clothes. What happened to you? found out the truth. Edna notes the pouring through the window, eyes her. But the sun is up... you're still Catwoman? pulls off the mask and looks at it, puzzled. Yeah. But I'm Patience, too... with or without the mask. don't think there's a difference any more. Maybe there never really was. nods and smiles at this thoughtfully, accepting her dual nature at last. - Filled with carry a few out. is ostensibly lending a hand, but is mostly interested in the men's muscles. As she picks up a tiny box -- You look awfully hot. Sure you don't wanna take that shirt off? winks at as she follows the man out the door. Patience looks good, no trace of the old awkwardness -- she's integrated her cat side. The she snatches it up in a swift, feline fashion. 120. Hello? (filter) Hi, Patience. Patience turns -- stares from his window across the way. - He and Patience maintain eye contact while they speak. (on phone) Moving out? (on phone) You are a good detective. It just feels like time for a change. Where you heading? Why? You still keeping tabs on me? Said on the Catwoman case was closed. Mm. No hard feelings...? Nah. In a way, it was flattering. Funny thing, no one at the station remembers letting you out of jail. That's bureaucracy for you. (changing the subject) Hard to believe, Catwoman was Laurel Avenal all along. Uh-huh. It is pretty hard to believe. 121. There's a significant pause, they eye each other across the alley. Lone knows, and Patience knows he knows. In unison: Thank you -- Thank you -- They laugh at this, take a moment to recover. Then: For what? (a beat) Dinner the other night. How about you? For... teaching me some things. Listen, Patience - - if you're still interested -- I'd like to get to know you better. onto Patience's shoulder, nuzzles her neck. Hey, you never really know anybody. Not completely. guess had that coming... Look, know it's not simple, I'm a cop and you're... dull accountant. All I'm saying is -- whatever you are, however... complicated -- can deal with it. Can you? I'd like to try. just don't want this to be good-bye. 122. Oh... have a feeling we'll see each other again. She rolls her shoulders and lets out a little he smiles, putting the phone down himself as Patience moves away from the window. to find the as she places it on top of stacks of slightly $100 and Catwoman Writers : Daniel Waters Ge