 Written by John Waters Fourth Draft: 1 June 1998 1. Film opens with beautiful shot of the skyline of downtown Baltimore in the spring. Credits begin. Cut to "The Hippodrome Theater," one-time downtown movie palace, now abandoned and boarded up with broken and blank marquee. The credits to our movie continue by fading in on marquee. Cut to thriving "Harbor Court" theaters, downtown chain. All six marquees list the same two mega-budget Hollywood hits. Hollywood titles fade out and "Cecil DeMented" title logo fades into marquee in all its terrorist glory. Cut to old "Towson Theater." sign is on marquee of this one-time neighborhood theater. sign fades out and our credits fade in on marquee. Cut to "Towson Commons," a modern cineplex down the street. All the titles listed on marquee are sequels. Sequel titles fade out and our credits fade in on marquee. Cut to "5 West Theater," one-time art house. The marquee now announces "Sunday Church Service" which fades out and our credits continue, fading in. Cut to "Westview Mall," suburban multiplex, all the titles listed on marquee are recent Hollywood comedy bombs. The Hollywood titles fade out and our credits fade in. Cut to "New Theater," once a popular downtown premiere spot. The marquee reads in badly spaced letters. The letters fade out and our credits fade in. 2. Cut to wide shot of 2. Baltimore's landmark art-deco movie palace. Marquee Marquee letters fade out and our credits fade in. Cut to blocks of cement out front of the theater similar to Grauman's Chinese Theater in Los Angeles. Each displays the logo of a film title that was shot on location in Baltimore and premiered at this theater; "Diner," "The Accidental Tourist," "And Justice For All." Our credits are intercut in the cement blocks as the camera pans across this local tourist attraction. Cut to the handsome but intense 20-year-old theater manager as he adjusts the final letter of the film's title on the marquee, perched atop a ladder. is dressed in an obviously rented tuxedo and for a moment seems like any other middle class suburban kid. the tuxedoed fifty-year-old theater owner, shouts instructions from below as and rush in an out of theater preparing for tonight's event. He is surrounded by several of his young staff - the sourpussed but unconventionally striking cashier; the African-American ticket-taker with a huge 90's hairdo so popular with the black girls in Baltimore; the happy and always smiling pretty usherette, and the dweebish but somehow sexy janitor. All have made an attempt to dress up their usual uniforms for the premiere. little more to the right, Sinclair. (Moving the final That better, Mr. Stillings? Title on marquee fades out and "Produced by..." credit fades in. Yeah, that's good. But try moving the in "Whitlock." little to the left. (Following his boss's instructions, the "Some Kind Of Happiness" title back on the marquee) Have you met her yet? Not yet. But don't worry, Sinclair, I'll introduce you! You promise? smiles sneakily to himself as "Some Kind Of Happiness" logo fades out on marquee and "Written and Directed by John Waters" credit fades in. I'm a bg fan! End of credits. 3. Cut to luxury downtownhotel. 3. Movie fans of all ages, clutch 8x10's of Honey Whitlock and eagerly await her departure. turns from beautiful Inner Harbor view outside hotel window and we see she is about forty years old and a complete knockout. Ah, what a town! is dressed for the premiere in an elegant evening gown and her black hair is cut perfectly in the Louise Brooks style that has become her signature. She continues her press conference under the watchful eyes of her press agent and her long-time assistant both of whom are also dressed for the premiere. employees stand by, ready to serve. tell everybody in Hollywood, when you shoot on location in Baltimore, you don't need to bring all the crew from Los Angeles. Baltimore really ia the best!... 5. Cut back to 5. lectures his other staff members as and set up behind him. is paying close attention as is the projectionist, a handsome but surprisingly gaunt young man. a sexy and slightly nasty candy-counter girl leers at who flirts back as she feigns interest in pep talk. the popcorn girl, a masculine but beautiful nineteen year old with a seemingly bad attitude and the young cool African-American usher with a chip on his shoulder join and and remember, Miss Whitlock is every inch a movie star and expects to be on stage at exactly 7:10pm to ensure live coverage from all three local news shows. By the way, hear she's really a nice person... HONEY's mean face glares out window at the twinkling lights of Baltimore's Inner Harbor in the early evening. Look at this dump of a town! turns to her long suffering assistant, The press is gone and they are alone. Get me the fuck back to If one more asshole mentions a crab cake to me, think I'll puke. (Trying to be positive) Did you try the steamed crabs? They're red and... No didn't! I'm not interested in any kind of meal you have to beat with a mallet... knock is heard at hotel door. Just a minute... (Muttering to herself as goes to answer door) .wearing some stupid kind of bib while families of mutants gawk in my face ...No thank you! the press agent enters. Your limousine is here, Miss Whitlock. You look beautiful. (Back to being gracious) Thank you Charles, darling. We'll be right with you. I'm excited. exits. (Back to her nasty self) Do you think Pat Nixon got fucked in this hotel room? Well don't know...I mean... It's called the "Presidential Suite" isn't it? Yes...but... Call the manager and ask him! can't ask that. . .Pat Nixon was a stroke victim... It's your � to ask, Libby! Call downstairs and find out if Pat Nixon got fucked in my hotel room! want to know! Large crowd of fans and gawkers let out a roar of approval as the klieg lights are switched on by and the night sky is lit up by the criss-crossing beams of light. looking incredibly glamorous, is being led downstairs by the press agent and a young biker-type bodyguard assigned to her for the night by the theater. He wears an ill-fitting polyester suit and an earphone. hurries to catch up with them. (Reading from notes) The hotel manager said "No." Pat Nixon never stayed here, but Nancy Reagen did in 1986... You didn't actually ask him? You said to call downstairs... You asked the hotel manager if Pat Nixon had sex in my room? Well. . .sort of. mean you told me... was kidding Libby. He must think you're a complete lunatic! Good God, you'd do anything! pushing a cart of towels and bathroom supplies comes around a corner and is completely star-struck. Good luck, Miss Whitlock! HONEY's face freezes in horror as elevator doors open and she is led inside. Several well-dressed hotel guests recognize and are thrilled. (In a sudden tirade) Did you hear what that little bitch said to me? She didn't know. In show business we say "break a leg." fucking "Good Luck"! frown in disappointment at HONEY's language. That's just an old superstition. Miss Whitlock, there's photo cps with the mayor in the lobby... That cocksucker put a curse on my whole fucking premiere! let out a cry of shock at HONEY's language. the middle aged African American mayor waits with the steps off the elevator completely composed to a burst of flashbulbs. Mayor Fenwick! and look to one another relieved as stumble out of elevator, shaking their heads in disgust. Miss Whitlock, what an honor! They pose together as snaps away. love what you've done with this city. And Baltimore loves you back! (Takes out proclamation) Adam Fenwick, Mayor of the City of Baltimore, do hereby proclaim April 29th to be Honey Whitlock Day in Maryland and do command this observation to all of our citizens. Whereas... Limos await dignitaries for publicity cavalcade to Senator Theater premiere. a 22-year-old hillbilly tough guy, dressed in a chauffeur's uniform sits behind the wheel of a white limousine as and and their entourages make their way to limos followed by (Looking at watch and sneakily speaking into walkie-talkie) 6:41pm. star is born... hears on earphones to his walkie-talkie. (Whispering into walkie) 10-4, Petie. nods gravely to the projectionist who picks up a 35mm metal film can and sneaks up behind who is looking down from projection booth to the premiere filling the theater below. Christ, there's what's-her-name from Network. Look at the tits on her! hits over the head with the film can. (In full command, over walkie, 6:43pm. Hit it, the popcorn girl, wearing ear phones, as are all the gang, grabs a 9mm gun hidden underneath a mound of popcorn and quickly puts it in her jacket pocket between waiting on customers. 6:44pm. By whatever means necessary. Butter? works with professional mixing drinks for a long line of benefit She empties last of vodka from bottle into a cocktail, squats down and adds bottle to several molotov cocktails hidden under the bar. 6:46pm... In the name of underground cinema... hurriedly unloads canisters of Mace from utility closet and stores them in his portable trash can. 6:47pm. Hey, hey, how many movies did you censor today? the usher, seats a and his in a row of reserved seats with other and then pretends to drop torn stub. (Into walkie, as he searches 6:48pm. An usher's job is never done, put down the flashlight and pick up the gun! finds hidden gun and sneakily puts it in his pocket. tears a ticket, and quickly pulls a bullet out of her elabora6.e hairdo. 6:50pm. Fuck the studio system! Enjoy the show. gives back stub and then loads bullet into gun hidden beneath torn ticket stubs in her counter. (To Ticket, please... 18. Cut back to 18. Closeup of WHITLOCK's furious face as she stares in horror at awaiting white stretch limousine driven by What's the matter, Miss Whitlock? fucking white limousine?! Oh nobody will know, we're in Baltimore... I'm not Liberace's boyfriend, for Chrissakes...My contract says black limousines only! The charity probably made the arrangements. It was an innocent mistake. Do look like a coke dealer? (Stepping into black limo,) Break a leg, Miss Whitlock! in a panic, keeps checking his watch. Excuse me, ma'am, but Security's gonna have my ass if we're late... (Turning on him with a Don't say "ass" to me, trailer trash! I'll have you fired! is raking in the cash. (Handing over the money for reserved tickets) The Heart Fund must be thrilled at the turnout. It's for a wonderful cause... Thanks for your support. (Between customers, sneakily 7:01pm. Inch by mother fucking inch... the usherette, carries another bouquet of flowers to the stage and sets the timer of the home-made bomb hidden inside for 7:10pm. 7:02pm... (Smiling to audience, under her breath) When the word is given, we will seize the cinema... 21. Cut to suburban throughway near 21. Senator Theater. White limousine speeds to premiere with police escort. the press agent, the assistant, and the bodyguard sit in back with as she gives a phone interview. the chauffeur winks sexily in rear view mirror to the bodyguard, who smiles back uneasily, (On phone, being a star) "Some Kind Of Happiness" is a screwball romantic comedy - life-affirming but realistic and to be honest, with all the misery in the world today, couldn't we use a little optimism in the movies? smiles evilly, holding a huge bouquet of flowers as greets and as they exit limo to applause from HONEY's white limo pulls up behind them, led by (Into his walkie-talkie) 7:06pm...The Big Snatch. steps from limo and waves like a true star to roar of approval from crowd as blinds her with flashbulbs. (Handing her the bouquet) Good evening, Miss Whitlock, and welcome to the historic Senator Theater. a no-nonsense middle-aged society type walks on stage pushing the eleven-year-old Heart Fund Poster Boy who is in a wheelchair connected to breathing tubes. The audience breaks into big applause as pales in stage fright and resentment. leads an applauding to his reserved seats along with ever the politician, shakes hands with the janitor. (At podium, into microphone) Good evening, I'm Sylvia Mallory, Chairman of the Maryland Heart Fund and this is Little William... glares sullenly at audience, unhappy to be there. Little William had heart surgery just seven days ago and thanks to the blood transfusion paid for by your generosity at tonight's premiere, he's going to be alright, aren't you, Little William? don't want to be here! (To as she tries to hug him) Little William's a little grumpy... (Snatching away her hands, under his breath) Get off me, ugly. .But he's and that's what counts! applauds. and lead through lobby followed by and and applaud and snap photos as beams. continues as glares at her in hatred. And now the moment you've been waiting for! You first saw Honey Whitlock on the screen as the lovely ingenue turned vixen in "Good For Nothing"... takes a big hit of pot off a bong and then picks up his gun. 7:09pm. Honey Whitlock, welcome to film hell! We see tied and gagged behind him. seats and who look to the stage with professional pride. builds in fury as he listens. .and from then on it's been hit after hit... kicks in leg behind the podium where can't see. (Grimacing in pain) .after hit. smiles at her sadistically. tries to inch away from who sneakily continues to kick her. ."Ask The Lonely"..."The Big Hurt"... kicks her harder. (Off mike, furiously to Watch it, you little fucker! (Back to normal) .her Oscar winning performance in "Forced Entry" and tonight... "Some Kind Of Happiness." waits for her cue to go on with and her "bodyguard" 7:09pm and thirty seconds. .Ladies and gentlemen, a big Baltimore welcome for Wide shot of audience erupting in applause and craning their necks as is led down right aisle to stage by and the bodyguard, and applaud from their seats. stands and applauds. smiles radiantly as she passes life-size promotional cut-out of herself in aisle. Cut to reverse side of cut-out and we see ready to light the fuse of a molotov cocktail. applauds wildly from stage. starts playing pocket pool in nervous excitement. glares at in prudish disbelief. sneers at HONEY's approach with hostility. grabs oversized prop check made out to Maryland Heart Fund for $75,000 from the wings and carries it on stage as the bodyguard escorts to the podium. shakes hands with and bends down to give a kiss for the grimaces and wipes off her kiss with disgust before kicking one last time. Thank you! Thank you very much! You're so kind! sneakily disconnects a tube to who starts gasping for air. throws down prop check and pulls a 10 gun HONEY's head. (Rips off his short-haired wig to reveal bleached Bomb in flower arrangement goes off, sending debris flying. hits the floor screaming in panic. pulls a gun and fires into air as screams in horror. throws a molotov cocktail and it explodes in front of theater between stage and first row of seats, blocking any rescue of by flashes logo on screen and rushes from projection booth. clutches her heart in fright as gasping for breath manages to plug back in tube and instantly becomes hateful again, enjoying the mayhem. drags a screaming off stage as runs interference, firing wildly over screaming AUDIENCE's heads. the popcorn girl sheds her wig to reveal her bizarre short hairdo and pulls gun. will be referred to by his terrorist name for the rest of the script. (To horrified jumps over popcorn counter and karate kicks two stunned assigned to the premiere and pistol whips a third smiling happily as always, quickly punches out the press agent, as he tries to block a from getting a shot of dragging up aisle towards lobby. tackles the assistant as she tries to run towards collapses, having a heart attack and laughingly imitates her gasps of pain. fires over MAYOR's head as he rushes to stage help run for their lives. tear gases and their as they attempt to flee. rifles pocketbooks of and steals their wallets as they cower in fear on the floor. stuffs cash into shopping bags, robbing the charity of its fund, pulls a large gun and runs out of cashier's booth. 43. Cut back to 43. is giving emergency mouth-to-mouth resuscitation as laughs maniacally. Complete pandemonium as premiere comes stampeding out of theater in a panic. leap from motorcycles and pull guns but jumps from limo, grabs a piece of lumber from sawhorse and knocks them unconscious with it. comes running, firing into the air, and throws bags of money into back of limo and jumps in. and come charging out of theater, firing their guns to cover their escape. drags outside, still in a chokehold as fires wildly to keep anyone at bay. (To who duck for cover) opens the trunk of the limo and and throw inside and slam it shut. continues screaming and banging on trunk door as and pile into limo. peels out in limo as and dive out of the way and chants "Battle of Algiers"-type revolutionary yell. fires his gun out back window and shatters the "Some Kind Of Happiness" logo on marquee. lunges for and they french kiss hotly. From PETIE's behind the wheel we see #1 with sirens wailing and lights flashing heading towards premiere. In rear view mirror, sees three other speeding up to Senator Theater and screeching to a stop. #1 screeches into a U-turn and in passenger side fires his gun at CECIL's limo. Back window is blasted out by COP's bullet. fuckin' hate car chase scenes! (Flooring the accelerator, Yeah, but "Bullit" was good! snorts cocaine off a coke-spoon and nonchalantly picks glass out of his hair. But it lead to the "French Connection." Which inspired a sequel! And lead to "Smokey and The Bandit" and that kinda shit! sees another cop car speeding up behind him in the rear view mirror. leans out limo window and fires gun back'at cop car. "Smokey and The Bandit" even had fuckin' sequels... Another cop car speeds towards them from the front trying to cut them off. (Insane, driving like a lunatic) Yeah, Part fucking Two, 1980!... Part Three, 1983! "Smokey and The Bandit" ruined my childhood! fires his gun in the nick of time and shatters approaching cop car's windshield. makes a hard right and zooms up church driveway as two cop cars collide behind him. cheers like a kid and starts absentmindedly playing pocket pool. Another cop car is speeding to premiere from behind the church and almost hits the limo as veers right in the in the road, narrowly missing a and a suspiciously as they leave the church rectory. (Yelling out window) Long live pornography! speeds limo the wrong way past one-way sign into path of oncoming speeding cop car. In the nick of time, turns a hard left skidding around corner onto bumpy cemetery road behind church. Cop car swerves right to avoid collision and careens into installation truck. jumps out of car and starts firing at limo. puts tape into limo cassette player and the entire starts singing along with original gangsta rap song entitled (and we don't need no pitch)." fires again and hits limo trunk lock. Trunk door flies open and screams her lungs out, holding on for dear life. hanging out in graveyard look up and see yelling out car window with in trunk. (Imitating "The Exorcist") Your mother sucks cocks in hell! look at each other in horror and run away in fear. Limo bumps down road at high speed and trunk door bangs shut, knocking into submission. Limo makes a fast right. Traffic is stopped in both lanes for a red light. screeches to a sudden stop. checks rear-view mirror and realizes they have escaped their pursuers. We did it. grabs from back seat and gives him a big kiss. pulls up in her car next to limo on right. Sinclair, is that you? turns down radio and freezes. (Suddenly turning into his old self) Hi, Mrs. Waltrup. Did you win the lottery? No, ma'am, we were at a movie premiere. don't go to the movies much, wait for the video. Not me, like the big screen. Say hello to your mom and dad for me. sure will. makes right on red and pulls off. (Smugly, to Casting has been completed! peels out in other direction. 53. Cut to a run-down, 53. seemingly abandoned warehouse in an industrial part of t:he city. The moon is full and the quiet is interrupted by faint sirens in the distance. Suddenly, like a low-rent Bat Cave, the large industrial garage doors swing open and the white limo speeds inside. 54. Dissolve to HONEY's 54. "dressing room"; a bizarrely decorated prison cell fit for a movie queen. is blindfolded, gagged and tied to a director's chair with her name printed on the back, still wearing her torn and soiled premiere gown. now dressed in terrorist punk outfit removes HONEY's blindfold and gag as she sputters in terror. We see has tattooed on his fingers. HONEY's e yes light up in terror as she sees now attired in insane grunge Cecil DeMille inspired outfit being lowered by on jerry-rigged film crane. "Otto Preminger" is tattooed on CECIL's bicep. .Hello, I'm Cecil DeMented and I'm your new director... stares in confused horror. I'd like you to meet your co-stars call them the "Sprocket Holes." looks over in fear as the now changed from their theater uniforms into their own scary "terrorist chic" fashions, gather around in a "crew-shot from hell" pose. This is Cherish... now heavily made-up and dressed "riot-girl" style, in a T-shirt, steps forward. We see "Andy Warhol" tattooed on her thigh. Hi, played you in lots of porno movies. "Some Kind Of Happiness"? I've already shot it - only it's called "Some Kind Of Horniness." But that's all behind me. I'm an outlaw cinema girl now. Lyle? takes a big huff of glue in plastic bag and steps forward. He is dressed in scarily in 1970's junky wear meets 90's Hollywood sleaze, and sports a "Herschell Gordon Lewis" tattoo across his skinny chest. Hi, I'm Lyle and I'm your leading man. I've had a boner for you for years. pales. (Getting off crane and stepping towards Don't worry, we've all taken a vow of celibacy for celluloid. No one gets laid until we've finished our movie. We're horny... starts writhing sexily. .but our film comes first. gently shoves her away as undulate in sexual frustration. .And now for the crew. the popcorn girl swaggers over carrying a beat-up vintage 16mm movie camera and aims it at HONEY's face. She is wearing a black para-military jump suit and we see her "Sam Peckinpah" tattoo on her arm. I'm Pam, the director of photography and you'd better hit your mark! now done up in outrageous homegirl gangster look, carries an old wrecked Nagra sound recorder and spins her microphone boom pole like lethal numchucks before raising it over HONEY's head, revealing the "Spike Lee" tattoo on her stomach. .and remember - I'm Chardonnay and do the sound. proudly steps forward, menacingly holding staple gun like a weapon. We met. I'm Lewis, the art director. hope you'll be comfortable here... looks around cell and sees giant stills blown up from her past films showing her in physical and emotional distress. .'cause you ain't goin' nowhere else! staples her gown to the chair. the grunge dweeb, dressed in complete rags but looking somehow great with his "William Castle" tattoo, shyly steps forward, absentmindedly playing "pocket pool." I'm Fidget, the costumer... (Suddenly rips dress to give her a plunging neckline) Sorry.. .but I'm gonna have to give you a new look... smiling beatifically, steps forward dressed in a satanic robe, an inverted cross necklace, pentagram jewelry and a "Kenneth Anger" tattoo. Hi, I'm Raven and I'm a Satanist. I'll be doing your makeup... stares back in confusion. You look so pale... suddenly slaps across face and cries out in shock. Sorry... but Satan says... you need color! the biker "bodyguard," now in leather get-up steps toward carrying a rat-tail comb and a hair dye applicator bottle. His "Almodovar" tattoo is a beauty. Call me Rodney. Tomorrow I'm bleaching your hair out platinum and should warn you...I the sexy hillbilly "chauffeur," now dressed in redneck militant garb and featuring a "Fassbinder" tattoo, steps forward. Hey, I'm Petie, remember me, "the trailer trash"? I'll be your driver. I'll take you anywhere... anywhere but home!! (Laughs evilly as he From behind a curtain, covering a room of lab and editing equipment comes now dressed in alarming vintage fashion outfit that shows off her shapely but purposely hairy legs. "Sam Fuller" is tattooed on her back. She wheels a set and mounted on wheels framed by little velvet curtain. (Snarling to I'm Dinah, Cecil's prod»cer and do everything! I've been knocking down box office money from every big Hollywood hit for years to pay for this equipment. You fuck with me, sister, and you're (Smugly to We made the news... nods to to turn on the to show clip taped from . So once again, our top story. Sylvia Mallory, the fifty-two year old chairwoman of the Maryland Heart Fund died tonight at Union Memorial Hospital following an on stage heart attack she suffered in the middle of Honey Whitlock's kidnapping at tonight's Baltimore movie premiere... stare in amazement at screen, the enormity of their act barely sinking in. .the teenage gang of cinema terrorists who apparently infiltrated the staff of the Senator Theater are now eligible for the death penalty in the State of Maryland... nods to to turn it off, which she does. gulp and look to their leader for guidance. steps forward, getting right in HONEY's terrified face. Miss Whitlock, we're going to make our first film and going to stop us. Lots of kids dream of making a movie... smile in brain-washed enthusiasm. .but only the ones willing to dia for it succeed. looks into CECIL's face and lets out a sob of terror. 55. Fade in to Next morning. 55. We hear letting out a fresh cry of agony. a dilapidated section of the loft filled with broken mirrors, beat up barber chairs, filthy hair driers and mangy beauty supplies. tied to a barber chair, still dressed in her raggedy premiere gown, moans in pain as in scary rubber fetish outfit, sadistically applies the final batch of double strength bleach to HONEY's already shockingly blond hair. wearing another "witchy" black robe and 666 earrings, finishes up HONEY's overly-theatrical makeup job. Owwww! Please! don't want to be blond! You're going right off the deep end of the Clairol color chart! squirts on more dye. It's burning my scalp! Ow! Ow! Ow! Beauty comes from agony! Everyone knows that! haven't had this much fun since my last livestock mutilation... lunges towards HONEY's eyebrows and painfully tweezes out a hair. Oh God! That really hurt! "In the House of Pain, there are 10,000 shrines." Allistair Crowley said that. Let's wash it out! yanks HONEY's head back as pours scalding water over her head. (Screams in pain, Oh God, please! Let me go! won't tell anybody about your little movie. Suddenly enters dressed to the nines in another lunatic "movie director" outfit. He is accompanied by who is even more severely dressed in thrift-shop couture, carrying a clip board and a stop watch. ."Little"? (Horrified to see him) mean... not little. . .10w budget. . .you know, cult. Good morning, Miss Whitlock. Know your lines? Please...Mr. DeMento? Is that correct? DeMenTED! You have the wrong star for this film... Nonsense, Miss Whitlock... wrote the part just for you... (Hearing helicopter noise outside, and smiling) .and the whole world is watching... (Ignoring passing police Even your agent can't help you now! 57. - cluttered 57. work area with piles of stolen clothes spread out in disarray. Insane fashion sketches of throwing bombs, firing guns, dressed in terrorist-inspired haute couture are tacked to the wall. is vainly trying to rip off security device still attached to fake leopard military jacket. First he tries pulling it off with his teeth, then hits it with a hammer to no avail. enters with as and follow, continuing torturing by blow-drying her hair with malfunctioning, smoking hair dryer and curling her eyelashes with rusty curlers. Ah Fidget. Fidget, my little genius, :Fidget! (Not missing a beat, Please take off your clothes. 58. Equipment area, next to 58. "Wardrobe." is changing the film in her changing bag between her legs. She hears and looks up excitedly. takes off her earphones and nods to who is finishing up painting a van to look like a delivery truck. All quickly exit. and leer at who looks to in horror when she realizes there will be no privacy. Do have a trailer? mean, is there a dressing room...? leans over set wall from above and watches with open lesbian lust. Miss Whitlock, we're an a schedule... and run to peepholes cut in "Wardrobe" walls and watch voyeuristically from the other side. sees eyeballs staring through peepholes and looks to in sexual fear. (To ever the Don't worry, they're not allowed any form of sexual release.:. nervously starts to unzip her gown. let out an involuntary sexual moan. (Muttering, furious) The Screen Actors Guild will hear about this and mean it! lets gown fall to floor and steps out of it. She is wearing beautiful lingerie. (Starts reaching into his pocket, subtly) Excuse me, ma'am. (Starts playing pocket pool) moans in sexual frustration as begins getting dressed in FIDGET's costume. pants from above as slips on tight pants. and watch from peepholes, breathing hard and moaning as slips into jacket. appears and jealously catches trying to peek down the front of HONEY's jacket. looks away guiltily. whacks and "creates," lewdly "styling" HONEY's outfit. He then wheels full-length mirror to and signals to she is ready. sees her transformation into terrorist glamour girl for the first time. Oh, God, look terrible! (Breaks into sobs) and applaud triumphantly. (Suddenly all business) Alright, leads to set, past equipment and lights as scurry to position, adjusting lights, setting up camera, readying props. This is Sprocket House, Miss Whitlock, think of it as your studio. They arrive at the amazingly inventive exterior set of a tiny guilded movie palace gone to seed. Marquee reads: stares dumbfounded. Can't you say good morning to Lewis? He worked hard on this set with a budget of zero. Good... morning. All these materials were stolen from city-owned construction sites...just for you! We're gonna have a hit, Miss Whitlock! Our picture is called "Raving Beauty." You play the insane owner of a failed art theater who along with her film fanatic boyfriend Lyle. . .Lyle come on over... enters dressed in hepcat 70's junkie splendor wear. .and her violence prone daughter, Cherish... enters in eye-popping "super model goes bad" look as HONEY's eyes light up in horror. "Daughter"?! .Together, the three of you vow to start a revolution to destroy mainstream cinema... cannot make this movie! quickly hands a stun-gun. You dare to tell Cecil DeMented you refuse! I'm too young to play her mother! know how cid you are... (Trying to change the subject) It doesn't feel right... I'm just not motivated... (Advancing on her with How's this for motivation? Huh? zaps her painfully with the stun gun. twitches in agony and lets out a painful scream. There are no creative differences on a Cecil DeMented set, Miss Whitlock. Got that? One day you'll thank me for saving you from your bad career. (To and Alright, walk-through rehearsal. slams the open, hand-written, fetishistically- covered script into HONEY's hands. takes her place in cashier's booth as drags inside theater door with to wait for her cue. takes out vial of drugs. Want some Ecstasy? shakes her head negatively in helpless horror. shrugs his shoulders and happily pops the pill into his mouth. .and moves around stage, making cliche director's frame with his hands as and rehearse camera and sound moves behind him. All the camera equipment has stenciled on it that has been scratched out half-heartedly. (Entering in character) Hey, Cherish, it's 8:00. Am supposed to get this show on the screen or what!? (In character, pissed) didn't sell one ticket, Lyle. Nobody came! Pasolini's playing and we have an empty theater?! pushes on stage. (Reading lines in a monotone) It's that fucking new multiplex that opened in the mall, isn't it? CECIL's face turns to stone as the rest of the watch, shocked at HONEY's wooden performance. heard they were sold out last night, Mom! Not for starts banging his head painfully on cement wall to show his displeasure at HONEY's reading. (Still in a monotone) Somebody's gotta pay for this insult! looks out and sees aping CECIL's self-destructive review of her reading; slaps her own face, staples his own leg; jams the sharp end of a rat-tail comb in his ear. This title will be replaced by a more recent critically panned big film hit we can get the rights to. From the empty seats of every good movie theater in America.. fellates his own gun, closes eyelash curler on her tongue. . We will rise up to take back the screen... sticks a sewing needle under his fingernail. (Just trying to finish) Death to those who support mainstream cinema! (Banging his head on wall harder, insanely) Alright! Stop it! Please stop it! immediately stops banging his head and return to normal. and return to start position as the rest of get ready to film. (Holds up marker) Camera rolling. (Spinning sound boom Speed. Mark it! marks the take. (Entering in character) Hey, Cherish, it's 8:00. Am supposed to get this show on the screen or what? didn't sell one ticket, Lyle. Nobody came! Pasolini's playing and we have an empty theater? enters and does the lines convincingly. It's that fucking new multiplex that opened in the mall, isn't it? CECIL's eyes light up in happiness at HONEY's performance. heard they were sold out last night, Mom. Not for (Getting even better) Somebody's gotta pay for this insult! silently mouths the dialogue along with From the empty movie seats of every good movie theater in America, we will rise to take back the screen! The watch in awe. Death to those who support mainstream cinema! and and burst into applause. That's more like it, Miss Whitlock! gives a suddenly jealous look. (Feeling her oats) To be frank, Cecil, would never do this picture in my real film life. The whole message is stupid - ask theater owners in any country and they'll tell you. Hollywood makes the best films in the world and I'm proud to be part of that system. (Suddenly the dictator again) Let's move on! What? No coverage? The first take is the only real truth... But you can't cut the film with only a master! There are no rules in outlaw cinema, Miss Whitlock, only edges. We believe technique to be nothing more than failed style. You see, I've had a vision... All the smile like film zombies to .and that vision is called "ultimate reality." The rest of our film is shot in real life, with real people ... . and yes, with real terror. 63. Flip wipe to Industrial 63. doors swing open and freshly painted phony truck comes speeding out. Please, no! Let's go back! hate location work! 64. as it drives through downtown 64. streets and enters Jones Falls Expressway. is behind the wheel as and study their lines in hand-written "Raving Beauty" script. hurriedly flips through Magazine until he finds the article he wants. and torture with their constant touchups as and crowd in the back of van with equipment and guns as reads a copy of "Psychotronic" magazine. see a fucking root already! He lunges to HONEY's scalp with hair dye applicator bottle. Owwww! Please, Cecil. I'm a much better actress in the studio... That's not what Magazine has to say. "Miss Whitlock seems a little ill at ease and past her prime to carry a picture by herself, especially one as sappy and overproduced as "Some Kind Of Happiness." Magazine said that? Your picture's gonna lose thirty million dollars. Can ask you a question? Did you ever fuck Mel Gibson? (Ignoring both and Cecil, give yourself up! It's not too late... Our film goes into profit the day we sell the first ticket! (To again) How big is his dick, anyway? (Still to refusing to acknowledge or Come to Hollywood with me and promise I'll get you a job as a production assistant on a real Hollywood movie. 65. Suburban chain theater 65. in mall. is playing in both theaters. van pulls up out front and stops. have guns drawn and equipment ready and are ready to begin "location shooting." .and remember there are no bad takes in a Cecil DeMented picture - just keep the scene going (To getting ready to take a large capsule) never took this much acid before, so if forget my lines, Honey, cue me! (Primping with help, Do my tits look They're bigger than yours, you know. Cecil, please don't make me do this scene... Your Hollywood system stole our sex and co-opted our violence so there's nothing left for our kind of movies... except this! and leap from the van with their equipment followed by who holds marker up before van door. Roll camera. Camera rolling. Speed. marks the take. and prepare to leap out of van. and leap from van with guns drawn. and (Chanting in character) leaps out with gun drawn. (In character, chanting) (Suddenly out of character) This is sQ stupid... leaps from van followed by carrying props. (Aiming his gun at Say the lines the way they're written! terrified, immediately jumps back into character. (Yelling to in ticket booth) How dare you play this rotten movie?! pans the camera to whose eyes light up in fear at seeing the "actors" in their terrorist outfits. Oh my God, it's Honey Whitlock! (Yelling to "actors" into and grab and they run toward (To $7.50 for this piece of shit?! screams and locks herself inside as spray-paints across box office glass. Macho kid comes running out. Hey you! You got a problem? (For the camera) (Kicks in balls) (To breaking out I'm peaking! and run to and touch her up and adjust costume whenever she's off camera. runs in front door followed by and carrying old-fashioned "sun-gun" lights, and still filming and recording the sound. look up in fear. am Cecil DeMented and you're in my movie! Look in the camera and ruin a take and you're both dead! get nervy, eager to be in any movie. (Excited, to Do you know Quentin Tarrantino? We love his movies. (Fires gun in air) enters in full character, pointing guns at (To scream in real fear. and enter on exit side of front doors and guard the "set." and enter in character with their guns drawn. grabs an over-sized cup from behind counter. You call a (Tasting a handful of popcorn) blasts popcorn machine with gun. comes running down from office. (Walking right into Hey, what's the trouble here!? glares at a large marketing booth filled with items for sale in lobby. She overturns the booth and items crash to the floor. We are the ultimate bad review! (Nervous, trying to back away) Please didn't make this movie ... . I'm just the manager... knocks him out cold with one smack of her boom pole. Horribly unfunny scene from is seen on screen. Packed howls in laughter. Doors to lobby fly open and and his and come running in, tying handkerchiefs around their noses and mouths and filming the action. fires his gun in air. turns around in confusion. (Hissing to Say the lines! (To ferociously You don't have to like this movie! (Taking out a stink bomb) (Lighting another stink bomb) and lob stink bombs into screams in panic as stink bombs go off, and tries to run to exits, holding their noses and gagging as and record their every move. smiles in directorial lunacy as one vomits right in front of PAM's camera. (To and his "cast and crew" take off, chanting their terrorist yell. 72. Fade in to 72. We hear a cool rap song on soundtrack called ("When we say action, we mean action, nobody's putting us in turnaround") Wild "Dailies" party is in progress. is smoking crack and showing developed footage from that day's shoot on the wall of the warehouse as he dances lewdly with himself in place. watches the "dailies" as he DJ's from turntables in booth while sexily raps the outlaw-film call-to-arms we hear on the soundtrack. and torridly go-go dance on separate tables as and writhe sexily to the beat on the dance floor. and watch the gritty film rushes atop CECIL's bizarrely decored crane that doubles as their love nest. is frantically trying to write his script but is pawing him, turned on by seeing herself on film. Come on, Cecil, want a little "action" of my own! (Gently pushing her away) I'm trying to write, Cherish! looking more relaxed, with only one leg cuffed to director's chair, watches herself on film in the arty, grainy, but very striking footage. does a "devil dance" with herself and ritualistically drinks from a skull head. Goat urine, want some? pales. It's a Satan thing! (Glancing at on film) You're really good in our movie! beams at compliment, catches herself, and smiles weakly back at as approaches with a martini on a tray for Miss Whitlock? Oh, craft service. Thank you, Fidget, but never drink when I'm working but you're very kind. Do your parents know where you are tonight? They're probably mad... Don't you think you ought to call them...? Cecil says our parents are the enemies of film... You know that's nonsense! Go ahead, call them up. bet they miss you... ruins everything by staggering over, scarily high. Hey Honey, want some crack? most certainly do Lyle. can't believe you'd be a drug addict in the 90's - it's so retro. Before was a drug addict, had so many different problems, Honey. Now just have one - drugs. It gave my life a real focus. Cut to on crane with as they hornily watch on film. (Suddenly riding CECIL's leg) How can you see me on film and not want to fuck me?! (Moaning in sexual frustration) want to fuck you, Cherish, but you know can't... Why not?! All my directors fuck me! (Suddenly back in control) I'm not "all your directors," Cherish. begins projecting the dailies on the writhing bodies of the sexually frustrated (Grabbing microphone and addressing his followers) save your sexual energy for the silver screen... break apart and look up to Our footage is stronger than Otto Preminger's... licks CECIL's tattoo. .creepier and darker than David Lynch's... scratches a sexual note in the music as he lusts towards who sings out a torrid moan. .more exploitative than Herschel Gordon Lewis. humps the projector, out of his mind. .and more violent than Sam Fuller..- writhes in horniness, pulls her pistol and fires at "The Films of David Lean" coffee table book she uses as a target. We will rise above our raging hormones to a new level of cinema unrest! Cut to sneakily dialing parents on phone as nods her support. . Do whatever it takes to avoid sexual release! Get as drunk as Sam Peckinpah... guzzles whisky. As high as Rainer Werner Fassbinder!... sniffs fumes from an aerosol can of metallic paint. But stay celibate for celluloid! Cut back to on phone. We see his suburban answer on split screen. Hello. Mom, it's me, Fidget. Oh God, where are you, Fidget? Are you okay? I'm fine. The movie's going great, Mom! Going great? Fidget... you're wanted for murder! Cut back to whc is building to a climax of brainwashing. .Feel the black humor of Almodovar... dances a wild step and tries to look in the eyes. .the satanic fury of Kenneth Anger! possessed by the devil, rolls her eyes back in devil horniness. .the racial tension of Spike Lee... lets out a soulful wail as she dances in sexual abandon. (Spotting on the phone and giving him the .and the unashamed exhibitionism of William Castle! freezes and looks down at William Castle's name tattooed on his arm. (Still on phone) Hello? Fidget, talk to me! Hello? We'll come and get you! Tell us where you are! Hello? Hello? hangs up phone and starts playing pocket pool frantically. sighs and shakes her head in disappointment. (Sneaking a peak at "Vibe Magazine" before blurting out to If we can't have sex, can't we at least make money? (Scared, but giving it her best shot) Yeah, Lewis thinks could have a hit record! I'm a prophet against profit! And you should refuse to sully your artistic vision with financial success! (Wide-eyed, to all) and give up quickly and join the other as they fall to their knees in cult worship. signals to she's changed her mind - she'll have the martini after all. Oh, Andy Warhol, we worship you from the new cinema underground... Oh, Andy Warhol, we worship you from the new cinema underground... guzzles down the martini. prays the hardest, still sexually aroused. .help us to use our sexual frustrations as you did for the future of outlaw film! watches, a little tipsy. absentmindedly joins in as she stares at herself in rushes looking quite stellar as,CHERISH eyes her jealously. Immediate black-out. 74. Slow Fade-in to 74. 75. Cut to 75. are passed out all over loft, surrounded by rotting junk food, empty liquor bottles and last night's party debris. and lie asleep twisted and entwined in the sheets, tortured by their erotic dreams. Suddenly, one of CECIL's bloodshot eyes open and he lurches for the microphone. (In a booming voice to all the Hey kids! Wake up! Let's make a mother-fucking movie! He hits hideously loud alarm button. leap to their feet and stagger into film production. Before she can barely open her eyes, sees and rushing towards her, their instruments of beauty torture ready. (Glaring at HONEY's hair) see that fucking brown color... Please Rodney, those aren't roots - they're scabs on my scalp from the dye and they're raw! sadistically squirts her roots with dye as lets out a cry of agony. Just close your eyes and think of the films of George Cukor. tweezes eyebrows painfully as continues to torture her hair. Please... please... (Trying a new tactic) Raven, you're a pretty girl, you could escape this madness... Escape to what, Honey? My father is a Zo-Zo, the three-headed guard dog at the gate of hell! Well ...I'm sorry to hear that... And one day I'm gonna commit revolutionary suicide for celluloid... Don't say that, Raven! Tell her, Rodney - no movie is worth dying for! blasts HONEY's hair with his fiery malfunctioning drier as she cries out in pain. Rodney, why do you want to hurt me? Gay men are supposed to be gentle... (Begins teasing HONEY's hair) That's just it, Honey! I'm not gay. I'm straight and fucking hate it! Petie loves me but can't love him back! I've tried! kiss him and all feel is beard. I'm so ashamed of my heterosexuality! Oh, it's alright, Rodney. (Suddenly snapping back That's why some days gotta hurt people. (Starts brushing out HONEY's teased hair brutally) It's not Honey's fault. Make them pay for me thinking about pussy! rips out a clump of teased hair with brush. Oh God, stop... No one chooses to be heterosexual. Honey knows that. (In a rage) He blasts the blow drier on finished hairdo and flames singe her neck. enters, now dressed in an even more elaborate Cecil DeMille-inspired movie director outfit. acting as bodyguard, leers at who lets out one final sob of frustration as changed into another alarming retro fashion number wheels in her portable monitor and Good morning, Miss Whitlock. Cecil, want to go back to Hollywood! Whatever for? Your old career is over. . .but your comeback has just begun... nods to to start tape and we see a on news in front of vandalized Timonium theater. was in the audience when they attacked and I'll tell you. . .Honey Whitlock was awesome! looks in confusion to who smiles proudly back. Tape jumps to a different news show showing wearing a handmade T-shirt. She stands out front of the popular local art house, The Charles Theater. think Honey Whitlock is right - most films suck and it's time somebody did something about it... catches herself half smiling at the favorable mention. Tape cuts to his head now bandaged. .Nobody forced her to be in that movie, could see that, but she was damn good! Scarier than hell, if you ask me! She looked different from her other films, too...I don't know... younger. HONEY's face lights up but quickly brings her down to earth. There are still some people who don't understand our work... zaps on and we see in suit behind podium at press conference. Subtitle identifies him as And this is live! watch in suspicion. Cecil DeMented, the Maryland Film Commission refuses to be intimidated by your pathetic gang of cinematic misfits... let out a howl of disgust as pales. 77. Cut to a tall tourist 77. attraction docked in the Inner Harbor, the popular retail area on the water near the Convention Center. The "Hollywood Oyster Bash" is in progress as continues his speech. .That's why we're here today on "The Pride of Baltimore" to celebrate location shooting in Maryland with many of the brave production and studio heads from out of state who also say to cinema terrorism. gulps in a new found fear as she sees the rage building on twisted face. gather around him in militant enthusiasm. .And this time somebody might have to die! 79. Wipe to 79. Doors swing open and CECIL's speeding van, driven by and now hurriedly painted over to resemble Potato Chips delivery vehicle, flies out and careens around the corner. is hastily re-writing his script in long-hand and as soon as he finishes a page, snatches it and passes it out to and who are now dressed in newest terrorist costumes. The rest of the dressed in caterer's outfits, huddle in the back of the van preparing the film equipment. and as always, touch up (Finishing up last page of script, to in this scene you guys are the avenging angels of underground cinema... We'll let these fat cat producers know! Yeah, that Maryland is not safe for their kind of movies! Cherish, this is America. They have the freedom to make bad films if they so desire... Not anymore they don't! (Suddenly testy, to You think just 'cause you made "real" movies that you're better than me, don't you? Oh, please... Do you know w became a porno star?! groan, they've heard it before. Cherish has recovered memory. When was ten years old my entire family fucked me under the Christmas tree... I'm.. . so sorry. guess you are. "Jingle Balls, Jingle Balls," my stupid brother started singing. You think that's funny? No...not at all. It's all behind you now, Cherish. (Looking out window) We're here... .and we're makin' movies! drink champagne, hob-nob with Hollywood types and suck down oysters. is still speaking. Ask anyone who's shot their film in Maryland! We have the exact location you need for your next production... disguised as caterers hop out of Potato chip truck with film equipment hidden in catering boxes and rush aboard ship past On other side of van exit and as leads them towards abandoned pier building next to ship. (Continuing her story) "Fuck her!" yelled my grandmother. How would you like that if it happened to you?! .wouldn't. It's ok, Cherish. This way.. Hey Honey, nervous? Wanna try some "Special I'm working, Lyle! and rush in. "Human pile," screamed my grandfather as they all jumped on! Do you know what a human pile is?! leads them up rickety steps to second floor trap door. can figure it out... suck down oysters in graphic montage. .From mountains to beaches... small towns to urban settings... goes to get more oysters in kitchen and jumps him from behind holding a shucker to his neck. .The Maryland Film Commission pledges to work with state and federal agencies... opens closet door and punches him in the mouth, picks up a tray of oysters and starts serving. . to make your shoot here in Maryland... and suck down oysters from PAM's tray. .as inexpensive and trouble free as possible! hits over head with boom pole and grabs another tray of oysters. That's why we call Baltimore "The Hollywood of the East"! and applaud as takes his seat. large window overlooks Film Commission party below. and climb out of trap door. (Climaxing her tirade Oh, really! Are you sure this stuff really happened? (In a sudden rage) £iE. believe you. Shut up, Cherish. I've told you. suddenly quiets down in fear. Yes, Cecil... Now Honey...I want you to do a little stunt for this scene... what? simple little stunt. It doesn't say anything about a stunt in your rewrite. See Pam? looks down to and sees putting gaffer's tape mark on deck of ship. wearing earphones, looks up at and in window and nods gravely. Another looks quizzically at not recognizing her. He then sees shucking oysters and realizes something is wrong. He spots a mobile phone on table. 87. Cut back to 87. That's your mark. When you hear "Action," jump through the window, and land facing Pam's camera. But Cecil, surely you realize could be injured... Suffer for celluloid! Maybe with an air bag or some kind of safety precaution... Just call me irresponsible... (Snorts a line of Special Outlaw cinema has no limits! (Smiling, to Prove yourself, Honey. spots a marine police boat quickly darting behind "Pride of Baltimore," filled with (Realizing this could be her only chance) Alright, Cecil. I'm a professional... Roll the camera. (Hissing excitedly to and and handing Places, you fools! and rush to scurry back down steps. hands a grenade and a gun. Don't worry, they're just props. After your first line, throw the grenade at the Film Commission. Nobody will get hurt. But there are bullets in this gun... Blanks ...trust me Honey. gulps. Lock it up! and jump guarding gang-planks to party. and clutching their beauty supplies in their teeth like pirates, climb up rope ladders on side of ship and peer aboard. and put down serving trays and pull out camera and sound equipment. throws down shucking knife and takes out clapboard from under oyster bar. is practicing and trying to get up her nerve. She runs to window, stops, goes back and runs up again, getting her rhythm. Camera rolling. Speed. marks the take. fix their hair, smile, thinking they are in a promotional film. (Lovingly, to kidnapped the right star, didn't smiles weakly. runs and jumps through window. comes crashing down in a hail of broken glass and lands directly on her mark holding her grenade. scream in panic and try to escape but and block every exit with drawn guns. bleeding from tiny cuts looks up to directorial glare and realizes she is supposed to act. (In character, to table full of terrified producers headed by Film Commissioner) Which one of you assholes insulted our movie?! (To No...please...I was only following studio orders. throws what she thinks is her "prop" grenade. The dives out of the way and it explodes. horrified that the "effect" was real looks up to but he has vanished. Suddenly enters the ship "directing" through megaphone. - keep eating the oysters or you will be shot and killed! (Shoving party guests Panicked party guests immediately slurp down oysters in gastronomic detail for camera. and enter ship on cue in character, with guns drawn. (Grabbing Didn't you produce that foreign language hit that was remade badly in English? had to. You know American audiences won't watch subtitles! overturns bar table, sending bottles crashing. (Firing gun in air, pointing it at Didn't you just greenlight another new movie based on a video game? It wasn't my idea... I'm just a vice president of creative affairs! We see silently pulling up to aims gun at terrified the gun is as real as her grenade was. No, please don't shoot me! don't even go to the movies... Do it. suddenly open fire on is instantly killed as he mixes hair dye. PETIE's face turns to stone at seeing his dead "boyfriend." screams, thinking she is being rescued as bravely tries to touch up her makeup. (Furious, to fires gun and kills who shot and dive under tables or jump overboard. is suddenly so stoned that he can't move. Help me, Cherish. I'm stuck in a K-hole and can't get out! firing her gun wildly, runs to and manages to pull him "off set" as freezes in terror deciding between her director or the fires her gun and accidentally blasts her ears over earphone and lunges to turn down volume control on her Nagra. (Struggling to continue filming while firing her gun) plays pocket pool while firing away, hitting a few (To as he fires his gun) (Suddenly jumping back fires gun at clutches his stomach and doubles over. covers her mouth in real horror. Instantly recovers, realizing the bullet was a blank. smiles benevolently at (Dodging bullets, happy) is shot in the left shoulder by kisses goodbye and makes a break for it and runs towards I'm Honey Whitlock and I've been kidnapped! is shocked when the tackle her and place her under arrest. grabs and uses him as a human shield as she fires away, hitting several cops. clutching his shoulder wound, looks up in shock to see being dragged off ship in handcuffs as read her her Miranda rights. (In a star fit) (Horrified to lose his star) As is roughly shoved in back seat of cop car, open fire and blast out back window. (Fighting cops, looking back to "set") Cop car pulls out: siren wailing. .94 Cut to main thoroughfare of 94 Helicopter shot of speeding police car taking to jail, speeding in and out of traffic. is a wild animal, kicking, biting and struggling with Suddenly we see the potato chips truck pull up next to speeding cop car. is at the wheel. Van door slides open and there are and aiming the film equipment as is ready to mark the take. nursing their wounds, but still obsessed, aim guns at cops. look over in total shock at bleeding and injured but ready to direct. They fumble for their weapons while still battling Picture's up. Roll camera. Speed. marks the take. It's your closeup, fire at but swerves the van expertly to make them a hard target. shoot back but they are beginning to run out of ammunition. (Snapping into character) (Ducking bullets but fires and shoots out front tire of cop car. Marquee reads - followed by the title of the Disney-esque current attraction. Cop car careens into boxoffice booth of theater and crashes into lobby as with scatter in fear. leaps from the van with gun drawn and runs to cop car as pile out of van. Cop car is wrecked, smoke pours out of the engine. Both are bleeding and unconscious. is injured but alive and struggles to climb out of car handcuffed as rushes to touch her up and eagerly embraces her. (To aiming gun in the air) He fires gun in air but he is out of ammunition. jeer, refusing to be intimidated. shrugs that she, too, is out of bullets. (Beginning to panic) Film these fuckers, Pam. Picture's up. We don't want to be in your sick little movie! Camera rolling. Yeah, pay us, cheapskate! Speed. I'm not anybody's extra! I'm sick of violence! (In character, trying to keep the scene going) Well your movies bite the big one! start throwing their concession stand candies at and and advance towards them. howl in anger, covering their children's ears and continue forward in an angry mob. (Beginning to retreat, Keep the scene going! (Nervously to But Cecil...you didn't write me any dialogue... You're one of us now, you know what to say! walk out of your films on airplanes! gets hit in the head with a Jujy Fruit. (Suddenly snapping into eyes light up in rage as they charge and pelting them with their concession candies. Completely outnumbered, and out of ammunition, realizes they had better run for their lives. and take off with in hot pursuit. 98. Around the corner 98. from the "Grand Theater." Marquee announces and lists three recent Jackie Chan film titles. and his round the corner and stop in happiness at seeing the theater. smiles in relief and beckons his gang to follow as gain on them in fury. Intense karate fight scene finale is on screen as packed of inner city watch on the edge of their seats, cheering their hero Jackie Chan. Suddenly runs into front of theater through fire door with and The entire audience of tough leap to their feet. rush into theater and freeze in horror at the sight of As karate mayhem rages on screen, attack with karate chops and turn in their tracks and run for their lives. is mobbed by who beg for autographs. signs, confused but willing. Hiway Film Delivery truck is parked and uniformed is unloading 35mm film cans into lobby. and run outside. He'll never get distribution! gives an expert karate chop to who in turn uses a few quick karate moves of his own on jumps in and picks up and throws him into display case out front of theater, smashing the glass and knocking unconscious. pulls away from to escape but stops and poses with for a celebrity polaroid with a bunch of is gunning the motor of Hiway Film Delivery truck with aboard as lies unconscious on ground. and come running out of theater and pile on to truck as chase after them, cheering and begging for autographs. peels out the truck, as one diehard keeps running along so can finish signing her signature, hanging out the back of truck. 103. Fade in to 103. We hear a jazzy, gospel-influenced rap song being DJ'd by and sung by on soundtrack entitled "DeMented Forever." dressed in mourning, brands on the arm with the logo as lie exhausted, awaiting their turn for the brand, nursing their wounds, loading their guns, and eating junk food. bandaged, filthy, wide-eyed in directorial fanaticism rants to his followers below. .The slash and burn of the white hot metal will brand you forever with the logo of Cecil DeMented... Wear the privileged scar of cinema sainthood with pride and horniness... projects the dailies of the day on wall as he pops Percodans. out of her cell and unguarded for the first time, watches her "stunt" footage with pride as she gets the vodka bottle from their filthy dirty freezer and goes about the ritual of making the perfect martini. proudly displaying his brand, DJ's the music as writhes in a sexy go-go dance for painfully caresses her fresh brand and wails out the chorus of "DeMented Forever." empties ice tray into martini shaker. .There is no such thing as family. We are the orphans of cinema and without our movie, we do not exist!... approaches with the red hot brand and she eagerly sticks out her. arm. My real life began in the cinema... brands CHERISH's arm. (Writhing in pleasure) And it will end in the cinema! (Singing along with turns to and with branding iron. (Holding out her arm bravely) From the valleys of Lebanon... brands her arm and she laughs at the pain. .to the jungles of Cuba... brands her arm and she smiles in fanaticism. (Shooting up in his leg) Film revolutionaries can never be stopped! brands him but feels no pain. (Singing along with Shot of pouring vodka into shaker. turns to whose eyes light up in satanic glee. (Squeezing out the bullet from his injury) .Rodney died for the roots of cinematic rebellion... stops making martini and quickly checks her hair to see if any dark roots are showing and smiles at .and he's now in cinema hell where one day we'll all be reunited. brands (Eyes rolling back in head) scientifically adds one drop of vermouth to martini shaker and looks up sharply at the mention of suicide and gives a stern but motherly disapproving look. looks away guiltily, feeling HONEY's influence. But our film could be a hit even after we're dead, right, Cecil? smiles egotistically and joins in chanting with zombie-like distracted expertly shakes her martini happily. turns towards with the brand and begins playing pocket pool frantically in fear. takes chilled martini glass from freezer. sees FIDGET's fear and nods to to turn on video footage with remote. looks sad to see his flash on the screen taped from news show. .Fidget is a good boy and we love him... .And we'll stand behind our son no matter what he's done. (Suddenly brave, to want to go home! freeze in horror at disloyalty and stare at him in cult pressure. pops an olive into martini glass and looks up in surprise. knew you were the weak one, Fidget. (Eyes widening in hypnotic But just remember - your parents liked "Godzilla"! They wouldn't let you see R-rated films as a child! They've never been to a midnight movie! starts to crack as his hand creeps in his pocket. They enjoy classic sitcoms turned into feature length films! They've never rented a porno movie! starts whacking nervously. (Right in FIDGET's face) And to top it off...they talk out loud in the theater once the feature has begun! grimace in horror. Even shakes her head in disgust as she pours martini into glass. That really is unforgivable, Fidget! looks around at the brainwashed faces of his disgusted, judgmental cult and crumbles. greedily gulps down her martini. brands as smiles victoriously. slightly tipsy, joins the in singing the refrain. turns to as brandishes the red hot iron. And you...Honey? No, Cecil... nods to who plays the tape. sees her ex-husband, a handsome movie star on screen with on "The Tonight Show." Well, was married to her for seven years so know just how nuts Honey Whitlock is... and howls in laughter. stares at betrayed as gently puts her t arms around her in comfort. Satan loves you, Honey, and so do Tape cuts to HONEY's assistant, talking to Subtitle on read "Honey Whitlock's Personal Assistant." .Honey Whitlock was always attracted to the wrong kind of man. It wouldn't surprise me if she was in on her kidnapping from the very beginning. She'd do anything for sex... howls in indignation as gives her a funny look. pours her another quick martini. You ain't seen nothing yet! Tape cuts to bandaged but defiant. (Looking into camera) Cecil DeMented, you can never stop Hollywood! The Maryland Film Commission is pleased to announce there will be nna delay in tomorrow's once-secret start date for the 65 million dollar, to the Oscar-winning masterpiece, "Forrest Gump"... let out a cry of horror. CECIL's face turns to pure horror. .starring Michael Fox! Tape cuts to dressed in Forrest Gump look. Subtitle reads "Live in Baltimore." think speak for every member of the Academy of the Arts and Sciences when say: Honey Whitlock, you are a disgrace to the Hollywood community! sputters in fury as pats her affectionately. hopefully played by the real actor. Say it... downs martini and, trembling in anger, puts out her arm for the brand. (Losing it, crossing over) brands HONEY's arm as she grits her teeth bravely and cheer. (In a new militant fury) This time, .1 have a fucking vision! CECIL's eyes light up in madman glee. 105. Cut to the one 105. professional sound stage in Baltimore located in the picturesque downtown neighborhood of Fells Point. Next day. giant all wearing "Gump Again" t-shirts, hustle and bustle on the first day of the film shoot, hauling expensive film equipment inside, setting up catering trucks, craft service tables and the temporary dining areas for the entire oversee crew trucks, honey wagons and the star trailers, all the while guarding the set from any outside trouble. In the foreground, the Hiway Film Delivery Truck pulls up, hastily painted over to read "Rhebs Chocolates." We see behind the wheel, disguised in delivery uniform. steps over to check security. Can help you? We got a delivery for Michael j. Fox from Paramount Studios. Largest box of chocolates we ever made. 106. Cut to 106. frozen in suspense, sits dressed in the most frightening of FIDGET's terrorist couture getups yet, clutching her weapons. (in a "Dump the Gump" guerrilla jumpsuit) and (scarily dressed in skimpy revolutionary uniform) sits with the rest of the all clutching film equipment and guns. grins like a lunatic as and aim the camera and sound boom at the door. holds clapboard. 107. Cut back to 107. I'm gonna have to check your truck out... Sure... (Hops out of vehicle to .You never know what you're going to find inside... slides truck door open and there are pointing guns and cameras. freezes in shock. quickly pulls out stun gun and zaps in neck. and yank A's twitching body inside truck and quickly slams door shut. 108. Giant sound stage. 108. Famous park bench set of "Forrest Gump." dressed in character sits on park bench in front of elaborate back drop painting of the Baltimore skyline. scurry about tweaking the lights. and people touch up the star as hands a crab cake platter and paper plate for the scene. a Hollywood type, looks up to European and his atop Titan crane. You okay, Jean-Pierre? - need another camera rehearsal? No sir. We're set! 109. Cut to 109. are playing cards, reading "The Racing Form." Suddenly appears from back hallway and pistol whips who is supposed to be guarding the door. As leap to their feet, and rush in front door with guns drawn. We're non-union and we're taking over this movie! returns to his director's chair in front of video assist monitor next to his let's shoot this sucker. You got it. 111. Perimeters of set. Two listen to walkie-talkie. Lock it up! taps on shoulder. He turns around and punches him in the mouth. grabs walkie out of stunned #2's hand and smacks him in the face with it, knocking him out. and tie up and gag the last of the they've overtaken. spots an issue of "Variety" and sneaks a look inside before rushing inside studio with 113. Off set left. Deep in 113. cables and camera equipment. Picture's up! strangles from behind with her low-tech clapboard. 114. Near set. 114. and sneak up on as they tweak the lights and knock them out by hitting them over the head with C-stands. 115. Off set right. Other 115. side of flat. and scurry up scaffolding to the top of flat overlooking 116. On set. 116. and finish FOX's last minute touch-ups and run off set. and jump and from behind and drag them behind flat where and wait as adjusts HONEY's costume. 117. Off set left. 117. has taken over job. Roll camera! 118. On set. 118. Crane is raised by on ground to the top of the set. and are on scaffolding on other side, waiting to strike. Camera rolling! and stun gun the and throw their bodies off crane and onto scaffolding on other side of set wall. (Hearing a noise) Speed! pulls gun on stupefied as he listens through earphones on the side of the set. pistol whips the finally atop a real professional film crane, licks it in sudden sexual passion. (Disgustedly, looking through Panavision camera, disguising her voice like a man) Mark it! marks the take. munches a crab cake on park bench as scene begins. sits next to him on bench. Hi, I'm Forrest Gump... That's a damn shame... You want some of my crab cake?... jams his fingers in his ears and twists his face in agony at hearing the dialogue as nervously operates a Panavision camera for the first time. catches her secret enjoyment of the high-tech equipment and gives her a furious look. expertly lowers them down on crane, mimicking the original opening shot of "Forrest Gump." happily watches the shot in his video monitor without looking up. (To don't eat scavengers. You know what crabs eat? Fish feces. Well, my Mama always said "Gump happens." Shucks, guess life is like a crab cake, there's good stuff inside but it's surrounded by a lot of crap. (Looking up in shock) What the hell? am Cecil DeMented and this picture is shoves Panavision camera off crane and it just misses as it smashes to floor. (Horrified but being Get off my set! pushes over a giant light that just misses a terrified and as it crashes to set. Nobody can stop the popularity of "Forrest Gump." smiles evilly and smashes the MAN's expensive state-of-the-art sound recorder. now conscious, are struggling to free one another from restraints. .Fucking little scabs... We'll get their little 16mm asses. (Getting hands free) got it! Nobody fucks with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters! 120. Cut back to On set. 120. and are atop crane with their 16mm camera. Mark it! holds a terrified and at gunpoint as marks the take by suddenly banging head on pole. Take one! and enter, in costume, in character, pointing weapons. (Growling scarily, to .only take the roles that I'm offered, ma'am. Are you this desperate for publicity, Honey Whitlock? (Aiming gun at 121. Off set. 121. & are running to set, tossing guns to each other. 122. Cut back to On set. 122. (Pointing gun at No more per diems! Please ...I'm a local hire - don't kill me! (To terrified No more meal penalties! Yes, ma'am. We're off the clock... And no more free food at international film festivals for you either - (Trembling in fury) The Directors Guild of America will bring down their swift sword of justice on you rank amateurs! Suddenly opens fire and shoots in the back of the head right in the middle of CECIL's take. and dive for cover under park bench as runs for her life. (Mumbling in death) Drugs.. .give me drugs... runs forward with a bottle of poppers and gives a snort. He smiles and twitches in final death rattle. (Always the director, happy) It's We got it on film! Keep going! (Frantically adjusting her lens) Visions of light! gulps as bullets whiz around her head and then jumps right back into character. (Fires her gun in air) fires his gun and kills is shot in the chest by and falls to his knees in great pain. pans the camera back to and shoots her gun and kills him. runs to crane and hops on with and shoots at & who rush in. sees that has been hit and a look of fury sweeps over her face. fires gun at & as they flood the set. fires his gun at with one hand and plays pocket pool with the other hand. He is shot in pocket pool hand by and looks down, stunned at his injury. maneuvers the crane from below with amazing skill to dodge the bullets as and fire back at & and continues to film. is shot in stomach by staple guns right in the neck with multiple staples. hurls an expensive microphone at just as he is about to shoot her and then continues recording the sound on her own equipment. Suddenly jumps from trap door in set floor with gun aimed at fires her gun in the nick of time and kills and saves HONEY's life. locks eyes with in a newfound thespian bond. and crawl off set as bullets fly over their heads. and are cornered by & who advance on crane with drawn guns. throws his hands in the air. fires but he is out of ammunition. frantically reloads her weapons. fires but then she too is out of ammunition. continues to film, bleeding badly from her wound. suddenly runs in front of in a kamikaze action and opens fire killing & grabs and all manage to escape set before badly injured with staples in neck, staggers to his feet and mows down in a hail of bullets. CECIL's eyes light up in horror at seeing DINAH's corpse. badly injured and distraught staggers outside with and what's left of his wounded and they limp up the street. races ahead and turns the corner just as bleeding staggers out of studio and collapses. & come around corner, sae what's happening and take off after and 124. Cut to marquee 124. Marquee reads Camera pans back to CHERISH's face smiling in relief at seeing her old flagship theater. and stagger around corner and beckons them to follow. The credits for a heterosexual porno parody of Honey's big Hollywood hit, "Forced Entry" are just beginning. flashes on screen. We see in the film dressed in skimpy lingerie outfit and Honey Whitlock wig as she writes in her diary on bed. as camera pans her body) Dear Diary, another day and the same old thing... everywhere go-everything do seems to lead to the same dead end... (She turns over to write on her stomach) .my derriere... Cut to of single men watching hornily as whole rows of seats vibrate from audience "participation." Concession stand is filled with porno mags, marital aids and rubber good instead of refreshments. the mutant theater employee behind counter reads "Hershey Highway," a porno mag with CHERISH's picture on cover. disheveled, filthy and out of her mind with fear, comes running and, force of habit, adjusts her breasts to look good. Hey buddy, I'm in a little bit of trouble... Oh my God, it's you! was just looking at your ass right in this magazine. Yeah, that's my ass alright and it's in trouble. Can me and my friends come inside? You sure can! We sell your tits. (Grabs a pair out of box) signals and and come inside. Hi! can't believe it's her! beat off to her every night! (Hands her fake breasts) Would you sign 'em? "To Sniffles." One or two? Two. Bad night, huh? (To trying to be kind) Go on in, pop a load. is on screen, still writing in diary. Why is it that men only want my ass? (Takes her pet gerbil out of cage next to bed) Do you know why, little Pellett? (Accidentally drops in bed covers) lets out a moan of ecstasy. Cut to and injured but suddenly horny as they take their seats in middle of the theater. (On screen, squirming around bed, trying to find her Where are you little Pellett? Heeerrreee little gerbil! On screen we see a closeup of PELLETT's excited face and then the movie cuts to PELLETT's point of view, CHERISH's great ass. watches in sudden horniness but catches himself. looks over at proud of her on-screen work. smiles politely and then catches eye of ruggedly handsome 35-year-old in audience wearing a Honey Whitelock T-shirt. (Mouthing to I'll be your cinema slave. blushes but smiles back at him. Heeerrreee Pellett! Mommy's got some Cheerios for you! The movie on screen cuts to in a closeup. She lets out an erotic squeal. Not there Pellett! at first looks shocked but then bursts into laughter. Cut to wide shot - whacks away in pockets in a sexual frenzy. 128. Cut to 128. & have in a chokehold. Where are they, pervert? Who? There's nobody here but us whackers! punches in mouth. Cut back to movie screen. (Writhing in closeup) Oooohhh, Pellett! You're just like all the rest! Oohh, Pellett! Oohhh! & enter back of theater, look to the screen in sudden disgust and then spot and in and watch hornily along with moaning as a frustrated attempts to play pocket pool with his injured bleeding hand. Even is a little turned on and dares to catch GROUPIE's eyes again. (Sexily to gives her the power fist sign. is shocked and glares at and to stay celibate. i rush in horror through of whackers toward and in theater, turns and sees approaching on screen, goes into theatrical orgasm. is near orgasm. leaps to her feet. AUDIENCE's eyes bug out of their heads at seeing the real thing. jumps to it's feet, still whacking in pockets. stop in their tracks, horrified to face their horny opponents, some of whom are unzipped. We love you, Cherish! starts advancing hornily on Long live Cecil DeMented! friend of pornography! look to each other in disgust, start gagging and run from theater in complete nausea. turns back to the movie and all at once begin moaning in orgasm along with on screen. leaps to his feet in front of to prevent last minute orgasm. stop panting and moan in sexual frustration. rushes over to HONEY's side. glares at him in a macho power struggle. defiantly puts him arm around as she begs with her eyes for approval. smiles and pulls up shirt sleeve to reveal to the "Cecil DeMented" tattoo on his arm. suddenly basks in cult worship. beams in happiness. and give each other the power handshake. 130. Flip wipe to marquee 130. Night. 131. Cut to 131. appears on screen in her old movie "Forced Entry," wearing her signature hairdo and a sexy nightgown as she writes in her diary on her bed. (Voice Over) Dear Diary, My husband is trying to kill me but nobody will believe me. She hears a noise and sits up in bed as her pet cat jumps into her lap. She clutches it up to her in fear. 132. Cut to 132. is dressed as Honey Whitlock as she sells ticket to carload of who wear T-shirts with Cecil's picture and the slogan One of the girls is dressed as Honey Whitlock and made up with fake bruises. (To Three, please. hands them their ticket stubs and free "Wanted Posters." Cool as shit! Honey Whitlock can open any picture! car pulls away into drive-in and next car in line pulls up driven by from porno theater. Snuggled up next to him is still dressed it same costume from last scene but now wearing a bad "Honey Whitlock" wig. (Muttering to in a We should blow up "The Peoples' Choice Awards"; that's what we should do! Shhhh! Calm down! Bomb "Planet Hollywood." Get ahold of yourself... Their car pulls up to (To trying to act normal) Two adults. Ten dollars. Hey, that's pretty good... (Suddenly the consummate Thanks. What's the prize if win? big ham! What else?! clenches her teeth in mortification as pulls off into drive-in, fuming. and RAVEN's heads pop up from hiding in back seat under blanket. This is it - our final location. (Excited, to We're gonna get laid! Nobody leaves this drive-in alive until we finish our film. rolls his eyes at GROUPIE's political fervor as rips off wig and starts touching up her makeup. both male and female, are dressed as Honey Whitlock as they sell popcorn and ring up sales to scores of Honey Whitlock look-a-likes from the drive-in audience. 134. Cut back to is hiding with her cat in terror behind bedroom door as #1 climbs in window with flashlight as suspenseful music on soundtrack builds. takes off down hall outside of her bedroom. pulls car into row of other parked cars with drive-in speakers hooked in windows. and get out as pop open the trunk. Out climb and helping the injured and bleeding and They all struggle to carry film equipment. and entire gang of scatter in the dark between the rows of parked cars towards concession stand. 136. Cut to filled with more 136. one of the girls dressed as heavy metal version of Honey. Man, wish Cecil would kill some more assholes! Yeah, like those phony critics who give all good reviews for the movie ads! Or those last minute fuck-head ticket buyers who enter the theater after the feature has begun! sees badly injured, as he limps past car with to concession stand. Oh my God... the greatest director of all time! 137. Cut to 137. stands transfixed in between cars as she watches her old self on screen with disdain as gently tries to pull her away. Come on, you didn't know... On drive-in screen, HONEY's character clutches the cat, races down steps to first floor of her house and sees #2 briefly staring through front door. Her runs to kitchen in fear and drops cat to get butcher knife out of kitchen drawer. and both injured, touch up and adjust HONEY's final insane terrorist-chic look. You have cinematic immunity now. None of your old movies count. on screen, scurries through "cat-door" cut in kitchen wall and escapes outside. In car next to and watch the movie. is weary "Honey Whitlock" wig. bet she's Miss Phony Baloney in real life. She don't look so hot to me. prefer Meg Ryan or somebody younger. (Slurping his soft drink) Can get more food? (Turning around, snarling) told you to stop slurping! suddenly sees and quickly turns back around. (Under her breath) Oh my God-don't look now... .but think she's standing right next to our car... is sitting in his wheelchair, counting cash in front of giant ham, gift-wrapped in cellophane with Honey's picture stuck to it. His sawed-off shotgun is propped up on chair nearby. knock is heard at door. Who is it? Cecil DeMented. (Thinking it's one of Real funny asshole! wheels himself over and opens door. and aim the camera and sound microphone at MANAGER's stunned face. looks to his shotgun. steps forward with and pulls his empty gun. trickle of blood runs from CECIL's mouth as lunges for MANAGER's shotgun. strangles with 35mm film off film platter. is dialing phone excitedly. Hello, Eyewitness News? Honey Whitlock is in Row 19 of the Bengies Drive-In... seen her with my own fuckin' eyes and don't want no ham...I want money! On screen, CHARACTER's terrorized eyes are lit melodramatically as she holds butcher knife and hears #1 approaching from other side of kitchen door. 142. Row near concession stand. and rush by car filled with wearing "Cecil Sucks" T-shirts as they yell out to screen. Kill the bitch! She never could act! Her career is over! hears and tries to turn back to confront but grabs him. No! Bad reviews can't hurt me anymore! We're beyond the critics' reach! Who cares what anybody thinks of our movie except Satan?! and pull away towards concession stand. mini-cam truck pulls up and and jump out. screams in terror as #1 rips open door to kitchen. Just as begins to strike back with knife, #2 reaches through cat-door and grabs her leg. #1 knocks knife from her hand. #2 grabs her ass with other hand. lets out a scream of horror. Suddenly the film jams in drive-in projector and freezes on screen before melting before drive-in AUDIENCE's eyes. The screen goes blank. disconnects fuse box and concession stand is plunged into darkness as scream. starts honking their car horns. Suddenly we hear CECIL's voice booming out over the speakers. Hello, this is Cecil DeMented speaking to you directly from this theater... & jump out of their cars happily along with other supporters. guiltily starts up engine of car, hoping to escape along with other terrified & leap from car, ready for a fight as do other gung-ho is tied up. (Speaking into theater .I'd like you to bQ in my new movie. It's called "Raving Beauty" and we're shooting the final scene here tonight... and enter and rush to CECIL's side. try to flee, resulting in honking horns and traffic jams. Suddenly a Baltimore City Police Helicopter appears overhead. and look to the sky in amazement. Pay no attention to the studio executives in the helicopter above...I and other rip off speakers from poles and throw them at and other and pull up speaker poles, using them as weapons against throws beer bottle at FAMILY's car as they try to speed their car to exit over speed bumps. (Continuing over speaker) .Fans of outlaw cinema - they're here to use you for market testing! let out a war-cry of defiance as they fight with fists, bottles, anything they can grab as scream in terror, trapped. pulls up in reconnaissance vehicles. Uniformed jump out carrying high-powered semi-automatic rifles. continues on intercom system surrounded by and rest of They want to detain some of you and put you in focus groups! looks in confusion at growing number of yelling out "No!" and joining in the disturbance. But won't let them!... (Lunging for microphone, angrily shoves out office door as even sighs in embarrassment at GROUPIE's behavior. and speed into drive-in with nervous in back seat of family car. speaks into microphone of sound system that blasts out over hastily-rigged speaker on roof of car. Fidget, it's your Dad. We're here with a psychiatrist... Everything is gonna be son. (Leaning into microphone) Fidget, it's Mommy. We know you've seen too many R-rated movies and we're here to help... Suddenly mini-cams from other local news teams speed into drive-in behind them. flood through rows of cars in the drive-in, weapons drawn, waiting for the word to attack. and dressed in clothes surrounded by nervously take the speaker microphone. Sinclair, it's your father... looks up in fury at hearing his real name, as and hover around him. (In a rage, into know you are sick in the head, but whatever mado you think you could direct? Sinclair, it's Mom. cars zoom in to join trucks. (Over helicopter speaker) (To gasping collapses and and rush to help him as lunge for equipment. r 161. 161. Wide shot of battling amidst the traffic jam of panicked attempting to flee in their cars. Honey Whitlock is here with us tonight... yell their approval. .Live and in person! And she's dying to meet you! proudly shines the headlights of his car towards the roof of the concession stand as other follow suit. 162. Lit like a sound 162. stage from car headlights. backs out on roof pulling with camera in MANAGER's wheelchair that she is using as a dolly. follows with boom pole to record th' sound. and struggle to carry on "set" in a makeshift stretcher as applies makeup to his wounds. is at his side, caressing him lovingly. go nuts rushing towards below concession stand roof. and form a sort of makeshift "mosh pit" underneath the set to fight one another. makes her star entrance carrying MANAGER's sawed-off shotgun with a pistol grip. go ballistic as smiles regally to them. gazes up at her in obsessive star worship as boo. You can make it...one more camera set-up and we can have sex... Honey, I've had a final vision. Would you set your hair on fire for our movie...? My real hair?... (Weakly, clearly dying) Prove yourself one more time... for your cast... looks into CHERISH's brainwashed face as her eyes roll back in her head, flash cut with "Directed by Andy Warhol" credit. Your crew... stare back at in a fast montage of their insane faces hallucinating credits of their favorite directors: William Castle, Kenneth Anger, Sam Peckinpah, Spike Lee, David Lynch, Fassbinder. holds a pitiful fire extinguisher. Your fans... looks to in a sea of cheering He is finishing up carving HONEY's initials in his forehead with a pop-top beer can tab. .and for me, Cecil DeMented! But will it...make me a legend? (Looking out at and as they advance toward him and then to You will be the eternal flame of cinema insanity. HONEY's eyes glaze over in cult madness. I'm.. . ready for my closeup, Mr. DeMented. dabs HONEY's hair with gasoline from can. painfully plays pocket pool and lights the torch. roar their approval while jeer. (On wheelchair, clutching her wounds, bleeding) (Crying in happiness) runs to mark the take. The Martini shot... smiles nostalgically at the mention of her favorite drink. (Coughs up blood) (Snapping into character) tips her head out of PAM's frame and sets HONEY's hair on fire with one quick touch of the torch. HONEY's hair goes up in flames as she gives the performance of a lifetime as pushes on the wheelchair and they film their most technically ambitious shot. go wild, screaming their approval. vainly tries to light his own hair on fire with a lighter but it doesn't really work. stare at HONEY's hair ablaze in shock. mouths fall open in stunned amazement. and watch in horror. watches from stretcher in pride and amazement and motions for and to put him down. (Foaming slightly at the mouth but deliriously happy) quickly steps forward and extinguishes flames from HONEY's hair with fire extinguisher. (Crawling from stretcher) That, fellow Sprocket Holes, is a wrap! charred and still sizzling, smiles weakly and feels her almost bald head. takes aim with rest of Instantly is shot dead by and her camera falls to ground. (Defiantly to as they throw tear gas at warring mob and look at one another in stunned disbelief. You mean ...we can fuck? (Dying but still horny, From here to Timbuktu! grabs beckons to in audience, eyes a who nervously cruises back, and plunges both hands deep in the fly of his pants. Their partners struggle to climb up on roof and everybody begins to make love. looks hornily to below but he is being beaten up by & as he desperately tries to struggle up to her. sighs in sexual frustration. runs to dying unzips his pants and mounts him. and freeze in utter horror at the sudden sexual activity. lower their eyes at seeing in deliriously happy orgasm alone as eagerly takes notes. beat each other up to get better camera positions. reach orgasm together as the cheer through the tear gas. Just after and reach orgasm, is shot dead in the forehead by who leaps to roof of manager's office from helicopter. sees CHERISH's death, grabs PAM's camera from the ground and hurls it at and hits him in the head. He staggers backwards, drops his gun, and falls off roof where refuse to catch him and he lands with a thud. leap up from lovemaking to escape but are shot again and again, badly outnumbered. and grab and run for their lives, crying in despair. sees his in distance and jumps off roof to follow and is safely caught by looks into cheering faces and suddenly jumps from concession stand roof with changing bag into mob of and removes exposed film from PAM's camera. jumps from high roof of manager's office to concession stand roof pointing an at seen what you did, you Hollywood bitch! looks through the tear gas below to see suddenly battling himself free from & He bravely beckons to jump. disengages CHERISH's dead body up and off of him and seeing in danger crawls painfully to Pam's wheelchair dolly. You're under arrest, Honey Whitlock! leaps from roof into mob of and lands safely in GROUPIE's arms. They immediately begin to kiss in wild abandon. shoots from atop roof and kills him. cries out at his death and panics as move in on her pointing high-powered rifles. and scatter, abandoning her. lunges for dropped gun of and shoots dead, struggles aboard dolly and nods to to douse him with gas. looks for help but she is suddenly all alone. pushes himself forward on wheelchair dolly, gaining speed and begins laughing maniacally. flicks lit match on as he rolls by and ignites like a Buddhist monk. (Flying through the air off roof in wheelchair, towards below) smashes into and they go up in flames, saving in the nick of time. sees more local and national all running towards her with guns and camera equipment. She turns away, pulls out compact and sees her smeared makeup. She looks for to touch her up and spots her being hustled away by outside concession stand moments before the plate glass windows are shattered by police gunfire. is jumped and arrested by special wearing rubber gloves and surgical masks. laughs and moans in & pleasure as he tries to grope an especially macho turns back to mob in front of her and gives them a demented movie star grin. 167. Out front of theater. 167. struggles to climb up marquee to search for his but he doesn't see them. He angrily starts throwing down letters as weapons at fleeing cars, smashing the window of bleeding, injured & C's car. and carrying film cans, climb into the trunk of A's car and escape with the final footage. 169. Cut back to 169. - ill - With only a few letters left on the marquee, re-arranges them to read before a bullet tears into him. falls and lands on the hood of his car as they exit the drive-in. (Injured badly, but alive) Hi Mom, hi Dad. and eyes light up in parental love. bald, bleeding, and burned, sees and their eyes lock in friendship as escapes into FAN's car. happily gives the extended index and little finger satanic sign and then turns it into a thumbs-up gesture of the future. blows a kiss and then looks back at the in confusion and begins her long mad walk to paddy-wagon through and dumbfounded who all want something from As the soundtrack swells triumphantly over the din of jeers, applause, career advice, legal strategies and requests for autographs and interviews, begins to smile in full movie star insanity and waves and blows kisses to the as if she just won the Oscar. Cecil Demented : John Waters : Come