Written by Peter Morgan From the novel by David Peace Heavy leaden skies over the arachnoid stands and floodlights of Elland Road stadium: home to Leeds United football club. And rain. Sheets of angry, Yorkshire rain. Flashlights pop as (late 40's), the most successful manager in English football, walks out in front of a pack of newspaper and He is flanked by the Chairman of Leeds United, 60's), and several other white-haired blazer-wearing members of the Board. I'm just going to make a brief statement. 4th, 1974" stands under a large trophy cabinet, filled with the silverware he has won. wait: intimidated. Cowed. (cont'd) Yesterday afternoon at 3.00, accepted the FA's offer to become the next manager of the England national football team. gasp among the burst of flashlights. The look down at the floor in silence. Bereaved fathers losing their favourite son. (cont'd) Obviously that involves me leaving Leeds United after 13 happy and successful years, which makes me very sad. I'd like to think have built the club into a family and there must be sadness when anybody leaves a family. However, when one man goes, another steps into his place. know who think that person should be, the man to replace me, and shall make my feelings clear to the directors. Thank you. No further comments. turns and walks out, a volley of shouting questions... We're in a car. Tarmac passes beneath us. Roadmarkings. the sound of a flat Teeside voice, singing along with Frank Sinatra on the radio... "Fly me to the Moon.." Two young (12, 9) stare out of car windows. Raindrops on the panes of glass. Their father, (39), slick, modern, cocky, handsome. About as big a contrast to as it's possible to find, is up front. Driving.. (singing) "And let me play among the stars.." When are we there? Any moment now. On the right. (singing) "Let me see what spring is like..." The car turns a bend, and suddenly the floodlights and stands of a football stadium come into view. The eyes widen. There it is! Dad! There it is! The smile in excitement. (singing) "..on Jupiter and Mars.." written on the side of the stadium. smiles, then puts his foot down. The car accelerates past the turning. The smiles fade. Where are you going? Dad? You've missed it. We've something else to do first. Won't take long. (singing) (cont'd) "In other words, hold my hand. In other words, darling kiss me..." The continues as the car drives on, turning into the of a television program.. The front title sequence, a Yorkshire current affairs program. We're in a studio. The presenter is Today we welcome Brian Clough as he starts his new job as manager of Leeds United, taking over from Don Revie - the most successful manager in the club's history, under whom Leeds have won everything.. ..not everything. Not won the European Cup... ...but pretty much everything else. Daunted? Daunted? Not at all, Austin. Looking forward to it. The biggest challenge of your life, and you'll be without Peter Taylor, for the first time. Your lifelong professional colleague. Yes, Pete's at Brighton now. He had the opportunity to come with me, but Brighton was his choice. Leeds was mine. surprising choice, some might say. Because you've been very vocal in your criticism of them over the years. have. You've accused players of dirty tactics, cheating, dissent, foul play. You called Norman Hunter, Norman "Bites yer legs" Hunter, you've said Peter Lorimer falls when no one touches him... And was right. I'm curious. Why do you now show such alacrity to joining them after such vituperative criticism of them for so long? Goodness, it's going to take me half an hour to explain all those words for a start. Laughter from the camera (cont'd) Football is a beautiful game, Austin. It needs to be played beautifully. think Leeds have sold themselves short... CLOUGH's interview continues on a in a sitting-room, where it is being watched by Don Revie, sitting in an armchair... ..they've been champions but they've not been good champions in the sense of wearing the crown well. They've not been loved. But then that's hardly surprising, given the type of operation there's been in place there. continues... Football clubs are like families, footballers are sensitive people. I'd like to bring a little warmth into the set-up... "That type of operation?" presume you're referring to Don Revie.. am.. continues to watch the ..who has long been regarded as a father figure in Leeds. And now you're coming in as the outsider, the enemy even, after all the things you've said in public, coming in and taking ouver as STEPfather. looks up at Don't you expect some degree of resentment to this? would accept and expect a strangeness, initially, it's perfectly normal. But it won't be long before they realise I'm a fair man. kind man. And maybe under me they can experience what it's like to be in a happy family, after all. How can you be sure they weren't happy with Don all along? They wouldn't have played football that way if they were happy. REVIE's eyes burn with indignation. He picks up a telephone, and angrily starts to dial.. Here they are. The Leeds Long hair and long faces. Surly. Truculent. Dangerous. Out on the practice pitch. In the rain. Some doing warm-up exercises. Others milling dangerously in groups. Their names on their purple track suits. CLOUGH's car pulls up. He and his sons get out. few waiting press. Cameras. Lights. few with autograph books. Where have you been, boss? loyal trainer, his face creased with anxiety.. Directors have been waiting more than an hour. C'mon.. leads past the training pitch. looks out.. Morning lads! Lovely Yorkshire weather! (gestures shivering) tell you makes me want to jump on a plane right back to Majorca! laughs. The stare in silence. Squinting in the drizzle. Condensation coming from their mouths. stares. spits and continues talking disrespectfully. (cont'd) Not much of a welcome, was it? And not so much as a smile from Johnny Giles. You're five days late!! And did you really need to say that about Majorca? (beat, changing the subject) You know he was Revie's first choice for getting your job. Who? Johnny Giles? looks over at who turns away, resumes training.... (cont'd) Was he now? And Bremner? Club Captain. Don's son and heir. His first born. You're never going to get any love from him. a flint-eyed Scot, stares at Great. Here's to happy fucking families. leads and his down a corridor, where countless photographs of hang on the walls. Holding silverware. They pass an open door, with a sign outside, Mr. stops. Looks at the sign. Then pushes open the door.. walks into the manager's office. The empty chair. The bare desk. His desk. Don's desk. takes a seat in the chair. Presently, a middle-aged matron, Don Revie's faithful for 13 years, appears in the doorway.. Any chance of a cup of tea, duck? They're waiting for you. Upstairs. swings his feet on the desk. Who's that? The Directors. For me? Why? For the board meeting. Let them wait. Now, how about that cup of tea? smiles sweetly, but stares at She pointedly doesn't move. lowers his feet. (cont'd) All right, I'll go then. Wouldn't want to get off on the wrong foot. walks over to the door. Looks at the desk. (cont'd) Who's desk is that, love? Yours, Mr. Clough. Not mine. didn't put it there, did Mr. Revie's. Let's get rid of it then, shall we? Chairs, too. The whole bloody lot. Think it would be best if there were nothing of his left here. reaches the door.. (cont'd) Were you his secretary? was. For thirteen happy years. What's your name, pet? Jean, Sir. Jean Reid. In which case, no offence duck, but there's nothing want typed on paper from you other than your resignation. She gasps.. (cont'd) And you can change the locks on your way out. Don't want the ghost of troubled Don popping in now, do we? Rattling his chains. Scaring my young ones. puts his arms protectively round the and leads them out of the door. stares, visibly shaken. Half-a-dozen white-haired patriarchs sit at a large table. Matching blazers and matching brass. Aldermen and Rotary club members. Masons and businessmen. enters the boardroom. Indicates to to look after the outside. Inside: matching curtains and carpets. Come in, Brian. sits down at the head of the table. Rubs his hands together.. What? No one going to offer me a drink? Like an undertakers in here. The shoot looks at one another. Why did you do it? Do what? The interview. For Yorkshire We've had a phone-call. Not so much a phone-call. Bloody tirade. From Don. They only went and rung him. And ran some of your quotes by him. About how unhappy the players were. What "bad champions". Looking for a response. (shudders to himself) Bloody got one, as well. He's gone berserk. He had it coming. He shouldn't have done that piece in the Mirror should he? Saying he thought was a daft choice. He's entitled to his opinions. And I'm entitled to mine. (barks, flame on) And I'm entitled to The room falls silent. That got everyone's attention. (cont'd) hired you to do this job because think you're the best young manager in the country... Thank you. I'm the best old one, too. also did it under the assumption that you'd be coming here wanting the best for the club. For the city of Leeds. So why do still get the feeling this is all about you and Don? Of course it's just about me and Don. Always has been. But instead of putting frowns on your foreheads, o ye elders of Leeds, in your blazers and brass fucking buttons, it should put big white Colgate smiles on your big white faces, because it means won't sleep and won't eat until take whatever that man's achieved and beaten it -- beaten it so never have to hear the name "Don Fucking Revie" again -- beat it so the only name anyone sings in their Yorkshire ale houses, raising their stinking jars to their stinking mouths, is Brian Clough. Brian Clough uber fucking alles. Understand? The blazers and brass buttons, of Leeds stare at one another. sits glued to a wireless in his front room. ..Ladies and Gentlemen, the draw for the third round of the Cup will now commence.. CLOUGH's eyes widen: he calls out to the others.. C'mon, Pete! Number twenty-two.. Derby County, second division.. Here we go. That's us..! seven years older than his closest friend, his only true friend, appears breathlessly in the doorway back from a fish and chips run... ..followed by Clough's wife, and the three children.. Number six.. the calls into the microphone.. Leeds United! Against mighty Leeds United..! and cry out in shock.. Leeds..! Fucking hell..! Don Revie's Leeds! Top of Division One! Here we bloody come! The telephone rings. picks it up.. (cont'd) (already knowing it'll be What do you say to that, Mr. Chairman? He's right. It's Chairman of Derby County, (60's) looks like Krushchev, cue-ball head, voice like a power-drill, a tough haulage millionaire.. can hear the cash registers now! Happy days, Sir. Happy days. You're not wrong, Brian. Take the family out for a meal. Go to The Mumtaz. Tell `em I'm paying. hangs up the phone.. Put the fish and chips in the bin. Tonight's on Uncle Sam. We're going posh. Chicken fucking bhuna in town. General excitement. Everyone starts putting on their coats. stands with two men in overalls, indicating a fading `Visitors' sign... Right, you two, want Billy Bremner and Johnny Giles to be able to read (indicates door-frames) And this woodwork has seen better days.. `Crash', the following morning, bursts through swing doors, and into corridors with the Spick and span, understand? Wash these walls down. Give the floors a proper polish. inspects the pitch with the want it perfect. Like a fucking carpet. We've got proper footballers coming. Who know how to keep the ball on the deck. Well, you can't fucking train on it then. The Derby train on a football pitch in a public park. turns to You know he'll be making a file on us. dossier. Who? Don Revie. Prepares a file on every game. Leaves nothing to chance. Knows every opponents formations. Strategies. Everything. I've heard he's a superstitious twat. (calling out) Ey..! Help him, someone him..! We grew up just a few streets apart, you know. In Middlesborough, close to Ayrsome Park. He'll have known my street, Valley Road - probably bought sweets from Garnetts Factory, where my dad worked. Heard he wears the same suit to every game. His "lucky blue suit". (cont'd) And he doesn't care for ornamental birds. C'mon, who's covering him...! The best manager in the country, Don Revie. Played for Sunderland, like me, as a centre-forward, like me, and England, like me. (shouting out) C'mon, give it and go! Peas in a pod, me and Don. Two peas in a fucking pod. in early. Before anyone. In shirtsleeves, sweeping corridors. Straightens photos on the wall. polishing the sign, on the dressing-room door. on his knees, scrubbing, cleaning baths in the visiting team's washrooms. puts on his suit. Ties his tie. He takes a bottle of vintage red wine from a cupboard. He places the bottles on his desk. Then puts two cut crystal glasses on his desk. His and Don's. flicker of jealousy on TAYLOR's face, almost like a wife - hurt that his friend is making such an effort for someone else. knock on the door. appears in the doorway.. They're here! (a confused look) Well, almost.. rushes out of the doors, straightening his cuffs, straightening his hair, buttoning his jacket. First out to greet the arriving team. He turns the corner to see the a hundred yards down the street, the getting off the coach and walking towards him.. What are they doing? They've run out of petrol. No, it's that superstition, isn't it? Every away cup ties, Revie makes them walk the last hundred yards. mutters under his breath, "Soppy twat". cranes his neck. Watches 40's. Thick-set. Severe, forbidding, intimidating, in a huddle with his coaching staff, Les Cocker and Syd Owen. His henchmen. His assassins. His "Goodfellas". His right and left hand. walks towards him. Hand outstretched.. Welcome to Derby, Don. Pleasure to meet you. I'm Brian Clough. But walks past without shaking hands, without talking, without even breaking stride.. ..and disappears into the stadium, deep in conversation with Les Cocker and Syd Owen. stares. Hand still outstretched. He looks over at who can't help smiling, `Forget it'. and walk off, but still stares at in disbelief. The run out onto the pitch: in a line, waving to the crowd, turning North, South, East, West... 15aA rubs his hands in excitement, "Here we go". But is miles away. Still cannot let the insult go. He stares over at the visiting team dug-out.. and his lieutenants. Whispering among themselves. Huddled in thought. Huddled in strategy. Huddled in malevolence. Presently, the game starts. roar from the crowd. "Beeeep", the REF's whistle blows. Derby rolls in agony, cries out, a terrible, cynical challenge. Horrified, and up on thier feet in protest.. Referee..! looks over to REVIE's bench. Sees and quietly applauding the Leeds Encouraging more of the same. As the Derby is stretchered off.. Presently, goes up. Goal Leeds. and his henchmen get to their feet. Applauding. 1-0. and immediately start shouting out encouragement to the Derby new instructions, as the game restarts.. (cont'd) C'mon, keep your shape! Close him down! Think, Alan! To feet! Now sent it out wide! doesn't join in. He continues to stare at in his dugout. Suddenly: "Beeep!", whistle! Penatly Leeds! leaps off the bench in outrage. Screaming, on his feel, protesting in disbelief.. What? He didn't fucking touch him! Ref! He He fucking dived! shaking hands with his Smiling amongst themselves. Congratulating themselves. Celebrating. The inevitable roar as Leeds convert, followed by, "Beeeeeep", the sound of the final stares in disbelief. Robbed. Deflated. The blows the whistle for the end of the game. watches as and brush past, shaking and GORDON's hands, (assuming TAYLOR's the manager), on their way to the dressing-rooms, their minds already on their next game... stares as they go.. 16aA The two empty glasses waiting on the table. Didn't say good-bye. Or pay me the respect of staying for a drink. Couldn't wait to get away. Through the front door we see: and walking to their bus, chuckling to themselves, deep in discussion, already thinking about the next match. Bloody cheats and all. Neither of those goals should have been allowed. But doesn't hear... Just going to have to beat them, Pete. Beat him it's the last thing do. We need to get into the same division first. We need someone with a good head. Experience. know. Our lot were like headless chickens out there today. turns to First thing Monday morning, want you to go and find me that player. wise head. opens his mouth, is about to protest.. (cont'd) And don't worry about the money. That's my problem. Just you go and find him. CLOUGH's face: watching the Leeds board the bus... CLOUGH's face: staring out at the Leeds waiting on the training pitch. deep breath. Right. Better go and make myself known. removes his jacket. and CLOUGH's watch as he walks out onto the training pitch... walks out into the drizzle and towards the (up-beat, clapping hands) All right, gentlemen, gather around, please. The players truculently gather round. watches them, notes their mood, then.. (cont'd) might as well tell you now. (cont'd) You lot may all be internationals and have won all the domestic honours there are to win under Don Revie, but as far as I'm concerned, the first thing you can do for me is to chuck all your medals and all your caps and all your pots and all your pans into the biggest fucking dustbin you can find because you've never won any of them fairly. You've done it all by bloody cheating. Silence from the (cont'd) Mr. William Bremner. You're the captain. And a good one. But you're no good to the team and you're no good to me if you're suspended. need you fit for every game, and want good, clean, attractive football from my captain. Setting an example. turns to (cont'd) Mr. Lorimer, hope you were listening because you're as good a footballer as I've ever seen, but you know how feel about the way Don let you harangue referees, fall over when you've not been touched, protesting and pointing, trying to get other players booked. We'll have no more of that. turns to (cont'd) And you, Irishman. God gave you skill, intelligence, and the best passing ability in the game. What God did not give you was six studs to wrap around another player's knee. don't know what you're talking about. turns to But you do, though, "Bites yer Legs". People kick me, kick them back. Not with me as manager. Do that on my watch, you'll be fined and stuck in the reserves. (to all the Things are going to be a little different around here. Without Don. Might feel a little strange at first. Might pinch a little. Like a new pair of shoes. But if you want your grandchildren to remember you for being something other than the dirty buggers you all were, if you want to be loved as champions, champions, you're going to have to work. And improve. And change. (nods to Now let's start off by playing some seven-a-sides. stare at one another. Bristling. Disbelieving looks. Don never did that. Well, I'm not Don. And from now on never want to hear that man's name again. Ever. Next player who mentions it, or what he did or didn't bloody do in the good ol' days, will spend a week cleaning my boots. (clapping hands) Seven-a-side. Keep it nice and clean, and sensible. No fifty-fifty's. sees that one side is a man short.. (cont'd) Right, I'll play myself. You might learn something, Irishman. Two hundred and fifty-one goals in two hundred and seventy-four starts. skillfully traps the ball between his feet, flips it up onto this head - down onto his chest, then volleys it into a distant goal.. (cont'd) Like to see Don fucking Revie do that, eh? removes his track suit trousers, rolls his neck. quickly divides the players into two teams, blows the whistle.. The game starts. leading by example, anxious to prove himself, is soon darting about, calling out... (cont'd) (clapping hands) Here, son. To feet. Keep it simple. Think and give. On the deck. Nice and crisp. Yes, to me, Sniffer. To me. passes the ball. But it's a fifty-fifty. Another player bears down on CLOUGH..who refuses to pull out.. a bone-shaking tackle from (cont'd) Oh, Jeeeeeesussss!!! is flattened. Rolls around on the floor. runs up to Fucking matter with you? He said no fifty-fifty's. aggressively steps forward. Nose to nose. He is immediately flanked by other aggressive Leeds Crowding the referee. Intimidating him. What are you going to do about it? Book me? backs off, visibly frightened. lies on the floor. In agony. Holding his knee. listens to the laughing at him. Disrespecting him. His face darkens. (mimicking) "Two hundred and fifty-one goals in two hundred and seventy-four starts." The sound of coarse, cruel laughter among the appears, CLOUGH's two in tow.. I've got what you were looking for. holds up a large parcel wrapped in brown paper. CLOUGH's expression changes. What about the petrol? In the boot of the car. Good lad. limps down a corridor. In a thunderous mood. Holding the parcel. scatter. The door flies open. storms into his office. He walks over to the desk. REVIE's desk. He unwraps the parcel, and takes out an axe. Stand back. CLOUGH's watch as their father violently swings the axe down onto the desk. The sickening sound of splintering wood. watches the desk burn in a small bonfire outside. and several walk out. They are surprised to see by the fire holding an axe... Everything all right? (sunny, waving with the axe) Fine thank you, Mr. Cussins. smiles politely, then turns, and walks to his car. The watch.. "Rrrriiinnnggg", the phone rings. and his are having Sunday lunch. looks up.. Not now, love - please? "Rrrrriinnngggg". The phone rings. tries to ignore it. But it might be Pete. (rolls eyes) Of course it's Pete. "Rrrriiinnngggg", tries to eat, then.. But it might be important. (to C'mon, eat your carrots. For your Mother. gets up. Walks out of the room.. similarly in disgrace with his family, similarly unable to go a single Sunday lunch without calling whispers down the phone, terrified of his wife.. You asked me to find a player with a good head. Experience. (whispering, furtive) I've found one! He's perfect. Dave Mackay. Dave Mackay?!? He's a hundred and fucking fifty. admit he's not young. Not young? He's old as fucking time! But he's clever, keeps the ball well. And passes it better than anyone alive. voice calls from TAYLOR's dining-room.. Pete...! That's enough! Come back! (looks left and right) He's the one, Brian. You sure? Never been more sure of anything in my life. All right, I'll talk to Longson in the morning. We haven't got until morning. Hearts have already made him an offer. Want him as their manager. Apparently they've already agreed terms. Well, what did you fucking call me for then? Because when asked Bill Nick how done the deal was - he said ninety- nine per cent. CLOUGH's face. Meaning he hasn't signed. Exactly. rolls her eyes, puts down her cutlery, and calls out.. All right, Brian. Enough. Come back now.. No answer. tuts to herself. Gets up from the table. She walks out of the dining-room, calling out.. (cont'd) C'mon, that's enough... ..and into the hall. stops. She looks left and right. No sign. Brian..? Love..? and emerge from a roadside cafe and walk towards their car. They've missed Sunday lunch. So it's Crisps. Sweets. Fizzy drinks. Almost childlike. Happier in one another's company than with their own families. Where would we play him? In the middle of the park. Somewhere he can see everything, use his loaf, and tell the kids what to do. We'll play him as a sweeper, then. (eating crisps) Aye. They climb into the waiting car... Won't have to run about too much. And what's all this hear about a tie shop? He's got a tie shop, hasn't he? In London. Which he spends two days a week at. starts the engine... Fucking tie shop? It's his "nest egg". For the future. No one's going to be wearing fucking ties in twenty years time. and both giggle. Like kids. The car pulls off... (cont'd) Hope his footballing brain is better than his business brain. CLOUGH's car pulls up outside a house in a quiet terraced road in North London. checks it against the address on a piece of paper. The two men get out of the car... You know it's illegal. To sign someone on the sabbath. Is it? (immediately cautious) Then perhaps we should just shake on it today? And sign tomorrow? What? And let Hearts in again in the morning? Fuck off. (producing contracts) I'm not leaving here without a signature. and walk up the garden path.. (cont'd) You'd bloody that, too - wouldn't you? Come all this way, then just "shake hands"? (shaking head) Dear oh dear. What would you without me? Hey, you would never have him if it weren't for me. stops, rings the doorbell. Looks at Good job we're both wearing ties. `Snap', the door opens to reveal a thick set, dark-haired bull of a man, with a thick Scots accent. smiles ear to ear.. (cont'd) Jehova's Witness, Dave! May the Lord be with you! Who the bloody hell are you? My name's Brian Clough, and once had the pleasure of playing for England against you in an Under-23 match. remember you now. You had a black eye, a right bloody shiner. (a beat) And never stopped fucking talking! What are you doing here? Come to talk to you about the Promised Land, Dave. Land of Milk and Honey. It's a little place up the called Derby. (a beat) May we come in? and training with the Derby (late 60's), Chairman of Derby County approaches, visibly angry.. Dave Mackay?? You don't look happy, Uncle Sam. I'm not. What were you thinking? Going over my head like that? Why didn't you call? Because you'd have said `no'. Bloody right I'd have said `no'. The man's bloody crocked. Pete reckons he's good for three more years. Is he fuck. He's broken more bones than Evel Knievel. Trust me, Mr. Chairman. It's money well spent. turns and double-takes.... And who the are they? That'd be Messrs. McGovern and O'Hare. Afternoon/Hello! (almost passing out) Where did they come from? My old stomping grounds. Hartlepools and Sunderland. Very reasonable, too. smiles.. (cont'd) Just doing what's best for the club. That'd be club, Brian. club. `Flash', and wearing Derby strip, poses under the Derby County sign for photographs with and and watch from the touchline as their new team led by plays in a match. watches in admiration... You're a genius, Pete. Bloody genius. How did you see it? On the training ground: barrel-chested and older, voice like a bullhorn, is already bossing about the young players, urging them to "think".. Dunno. It was just obvious. McGovern in midfield, Mackay at the back, O'Hare up front. The skewer isn't it? In the shish kebab. watches passing the ball, creating space.. It's beautiful. thing of fucking beauty!! grabs TAYLOR's head, kisses him. we fade in the roar from the crowd... Derby score. and leap to their feet. Derby score. and leap to their feet. Derby score. and leap to their feet. Of winning the championship. Of announcing it in the Midlands. large, swanky house, as befits the multi-millionaire owner of a successful haulage business. and are all celebrating with all their families. The trophy is centre-stage. sings a Sinatra classic.. "Love and marriage, love and marriage, it's an institute you can't disparage.." To everyone's amusement: sings to not his own wife.. (cont'd) "Try, try, try to separate them, it's an illusion. Try, try, try and you will only come to this conclusion.." In another corner: is amiably ribbing ..."the man's crocked", "older than time" "broken more bones than Evel Knievel?" All right, admit it, was wrong. starts eating his trademark felt hat. Much cheering as he munches in disgust and swallows with difficulty. Suddenly, looks up, sees the television. Calls for quiet!! a live awards presentation. From London. is being presented with an award... ..for Leeds to win the First Division title, and for me to be named as English Manager of the year...feels like a dream come true... watches. His expression changes. His eyes burn into REVIE's. You enjoy it, Don. Go home, put your feet up and fucking enjoy it. There's a good lad. Because we'll be in the First Division next season. And we're going to have you! Loud from and we fade in the sound of roaring... Wembley Stadium on Charity Shield day. The opening of the 1974/5 season. The twin towers of Wembley Stadium, the cathedral of English football on a glorious late-summer's day... good afternoon everyone, it's the Charity Shield, the opening Saturday of the 1974 season, and a first chance to get a look at Brian Clough's Leeds... is being interviewed by a in sheepskin coat and headphones.. Will you be supporting Leeds today, Don? You'd expect nothing less having been their manager for 13 years. But the fact is I'm here today as manager of England... Do you have any advice to give your successor, Brian Clough, before his first game? mischievous smile barely perceptible of REVIE's face.. Win. The people of Leeds are used to winning. with the in the dressing-room before kick off. changing. The stink of Ralgex. bandaging the injured. massaging one or two players. Right, the team for today is: Harvey in goal, Reaney, Cherry, Bremner, McQueen, Hunter, Lorimer, Clarke, Jordan, Giles, Gray. folds a piece of paper. flicker of vulnerability. (cont'd) Obviously all eyes will be on us to see how things have changed. Without Don. What might be different under me. Let's show them some of the things we've been working on. Our changes in attitude, too. Our new outlook. New discipline. New approach. (a beat) Let's see some of you playing with a smile. Team talk over: the put on their shoes. Make final preparations. The two teams are limbering up in the tunnel. takes his place ahead of Of course, it goes without saying I'd like you to continue as Club Captain. Silence. continues to limber up... (cont'd) You know, son, I've nothing but the highest regard for you as a player. They get the instruction to walk out, towards the roar of the crowd... (cont'd) In fact, wrote you a card saying as much. Did you not get it? From Majorca? The roar of the grows louder... (cont'd) Saying how excited was to be taking this job. How much thought we could achieve together. And inviting you and your family down to our place in Calla Major any time you like? Never got it. They walk out into the of the crowd.... sits in the stadium watching as: leads his Leeds out. 67,000 screaming and shouting. stony-faced behind him. CLOUGH's face in close-up. Singing the National Anthem. He sees in the crowd. CLOUGH's eyes. REVIE's eyes. All around them, 67,000 belting out "God Save The Queen". But there might as well not be. It's just and the National Anthem finishes. great goes up. The game is underway. The match can hardly believe what they are seeing, (we catch snippets of on their monitors)... Kevin Keegan goes to ground....rolling around on the pitch....that almost looked like Johnny Giles's fist made contact with Kevin Keegan's face...it was!...the referee's pulled out his book...now a fight has broken out! On the pitch: and have started fighting.. Billy Bremner of Leeds and Kevin Keegan of Liverpool have come to blows... watches from the dug-out. Unable to believe his eyes.. For fuck's sake.. ...the referee is talking to his linesman..! He's sending them off! The referee is sending off both players.. walks off, angrily removing his shirt.. Liverpool lift the aloft. Delirious cheering from their The Leeds coach had pulled up and the players are all having a piss-break. Among them (over his shoulder) Because losing wasn't enough, was it? You only had to be the first Englishman to be sent off at Wembley. Our widens to reveal pissing in line with and (through gritted teeth) Not fucking English. There am making a big song and dance to the media about our new approach. Our new attitude. Our new ethics. And you turn the place into fucking Verdun. My Silence. shakes himself dry. (cont'd) What am going to do if they suspend you? You're my best player. tell you, I've a mind to fine you two weeks wages! You can't do that! Mr. Revie always paid all our fines. Well he's not fucking here now, is he? No, he's not. turn. Walks back towards the bus. (cont'd) More's the fucking pity. REVIE's face: he watches through a window in Elland Road, as.... The Derby Coach arrives. Hydraulic brakes Doors open. Boots, shoes, walk down steps. and the Derby Army disembark. CLOUGH's face: as he looks up at the writing on the side of the stadium. Some getting dressed. and massaging others. Shin-pads. Water-bottles. Right, last time there was a whole division between you and Leeds. Not now. Not today. Today we're here as Second Division champions, and equals with Leeds. John McGovern and Billy Bremner, Kevin Hector and Johnny Giles, Alan Hinton and Peter Lorimer, John O'Hare and Paul Madely. Now, c'mon, chins up. Chests out. We can take this fucking lot. The clatter out, studs rattling down the tunnel, into the roar of the and in a deserted bar. Alone. television plays in the corner. REVIE's face on ...obviously it's a terrific achievement for Derby, being promoted to the First Division, but the truth is Leeds United have an unfortunate habit of reminding them just how far they still have to go.. Arrogant twat.. But he's right. Five nothing. They made us look like fools today. And what was John O'Hare doing? Letting Madeley bully him like that. (cont'd) Push him around. Madeley's half his bloody size. O'Hare needs to toughen up. He's from Scottish dockyards, isn't he? And what about John McGovern? He was useless in the middle. Who's idea was that? Yours. He was all over the place. Like the Wandering Jew. Giving the ball to anyone his own. We need a ball player, a natural in midfield. Who'll hold onto it. Keep possession. We're giving it away too easily. Someone like Colin Todd. (sharp intake) Oooh, now you're talking. Lovely pair of feet. I've heard he wants out of Sunderland, too. They're all jumping ship up there. thinks for a moment, then... Well, go on then. Sign him. What? We can't. Longson's already told us. Club's in debt. Bollocks to that. I've not brought us all the way to the First Division just to sit there mid-table, and be cannon fodder for sides like Leeds. Sign the man. Hang on, hang on, careful... I'll handle bloody Longson. is working a session with the Derby car screeches into the car park behind. red-faced, apoplectic gets out.. hundred and seventy grand?!? For Colin fucking Todd?!? Correction, the Colin Todd. The best technical footballer in the country. salary of three hundred quid a week? You can't pay a footballer that!! That's the way things are going, Uncle Sam. Football's all about money now. told you never to go over my head again. Had no choice. Windows opened up. You were in the bloody West Indies. WindowS? You mean there were others?!? Messrs. Gemmell and Hennessy. Two turn and wave to Afternoon!/Hello! (eyes popping/apoplectic) For fucks Let me ask you a question, Uncle Sam. What did you come into football for? To support the football club in The club I've supported Well, I'm sure we all admire your loyalty... What come into it for was to be lectured by a cocky little twat from the North East. But the way see it, there's no point being in this game unless you want to beat the best, and be the best, and that's all the people of Derby want. To see their team on top of the tree, Derby, Derby Uber Alles, and if it's really their interest you have at heart, not just impressing your friends in the Director's box, suggest you keep your eyes on your road haulage business, keep your opinions to yourself and start signing some fucking cheques, there's a good lad. Leave the running of this football club to the professionals. But professionals run the club, Brian, the Chairman does. And if it's true, that football is all about money, and that's the way it's going, that's suits us Chairmen just fucking fine..because we're the ones who've got it. lights a cigar, and walks off. The Leeds coach pulls into the Derby car park. Doors open. and disembark. Followed by the Leeds Smoking. Side-burns. Long- haired assassins one and all. and watch from an upstairs corridor window.. See they've driven all the way into the car park this time. It's not a cup game, is it? and look at one another, "Nutter". An atmosphere of expectation and excitement. Outside, the sound of the crowd. The sound of tannoy announcements. goes to You know what your job is today? Yes, Boss. Stay in position. Keep the shape. "Stop being the Wandering Jew". Good lad. And enjoy it. You deserve to. You've worked hard this week. moves to (cont'd) Clear about what you're doing today? Be big. Be strong. Any chance get, flatten Paul fucking Madely. Good lad. He bullies you, you bully him back. And near post for the corners we worked on. Yes, Boss. moves to another (his new signing, Understand what want from you today, son? (smiles) should, Mr. Clough. It's simple enough. Go on, let's hear it. "To be Colin fucking Todd, the best technical footballer in the country." Laughter in the dressing-room. There, how could you forget that? Now come on.. (clapping hands) Up and at `em! holds the door open, shaking each and every one of the hands as they clatter out into the tunnel.. sits in his dug-out. While and are calling out instructions to the Derby players on the pitch... stares at and his lieutenants in their neighbouring dug-out. Presently...CLOUGH's view, and our frame is filled by two wheel-chairs carrying disabled/learning difficulties wearing rosettes... The wheel-chair looks at for a beat, then violently shakes a rattle... CLOUGH's face: shocked. Then, all of a sudden.... a roar goes up. Goal Leeds. and his henchmen leap to their feet, delighted. Applauding. The screams with delight. Makes a `wanker' gesture in CLOUGH's face. CLOUGH's face: darkening like thunder. The sit in the dressing-room. Shaking. Terrified. Trying to hide, find shelter, find protection. Already fearing the rocket they will get, the lash of his tongue.. Presently, the door opens, and walks in, carrying a bottle of brandy, Remy Martin. Congratulations, lads! Beautiful! That was as perfect a half of terrible football as I've ever seen. The plan you've obviously been hatching to get me the sack has worked a treat, so you deserve a little celebration... pours brandy into a tea-cup, gives it to a (cont'd) You do want me to get the sack? No, Boss. Then why the fuck did you give it to their most dangerous player, Johnny fucking Giles? didn't see him. turns to another pours him a shot of cognac... You want me to get the sack, Mr O'Hare? No, Boss. That open goal? Looked like a deliberate fucking miss to me. miss to get your manager the sack. turns to a third hands him a cup.. (cont'd) You do want me to get the sack, Mr. Todd? No. No what? No, Boss. The amount of bloody money paid for you, must have been out of my mind. You can't even keep on your feet. No, Boss. turns, and faces the room. You've all done a terrific job of getting me the sack. So I'm not letting you out of here for the second half, until you've finished the bottle. The stare at one another, holding their drinks. (cont'd) The nervously down their drinks. exits.. walks out to see and waiting - who were listening through the door.. You can't do that!! winks... Can't Just you fucking watch me!! storms off. is left alone. Looks pale. Momentarily holds his chest... You all right? Yeah....fine. indicates JIMMY's cigarettes. (cont'd) Giz a fag. The Derby run out, belching, watched and encouraged by emerges from the dressing-room, holding the empty bottle of Scotch... (to Where's he gone now? pacing in his office. Unable to watch. Like an expectant father. Presently the building reverberates with a large... goal. But scored by whom? Derby or Leeds? looks up at the clock. The clock on the wall shows it's 4.20. Visibly anxious, starts pacing again. Presently, another deafening... The building is almost brought to it's foundations.. looks up. Desperate to know. Derby or Leeds? But it's only 4.35. Game still not over. Not by a long way. carries on pacing. Walks from one side of the room to the next. Left to right. Right to left. Then, another stadium-shaking.. looks up at the clock. 4.55. This is intolerable. The game must be over now. cannot bear it a moment longer. He opens the door. walks down a corridor. Then runs. Then checks himself. Slows down. Dignity. Dignity. But still walks as fast as he can. turns a corner to the dressing-rooms and the tunnel, then sees up ahead entering the tunnel from the pitch with several Derby stops. looks up. Sees Their eyes meet. CLOUGH's eyes. TAYLOR's eyes. Words are not necessary. TAYLOR's smile says it all. runs towards The two men embrace. And..? Who scored? O'Hare. brace. Oh, Brian, you should have seen his first. Turns Bremner inside out, nutmegs Madeley for good measure. It was beautiful. You'd think he'd been born in Rio de Janeiro, not Aber-bloody-deen.. and walk off down the corridor. (cont'd) What made you go for the Brandy? They were just nervous. Shitting themselves. You could tell. You're a bloody genius. tell you what, Bri - if we can beat this lot, we can go all the way. Derby win against Ipswich Town - 1-0 Derby win against Sheffield United - 4-0 Derby beat Huddersfield Town - 3-0 announces that Derby County have won the First Division Championship. The celebrate in a communal bath, holding the trophy, drinking champagne. Spraying one another with water. and hold aloft a large trophy, travelling on board an open-top bus, through Derby. The whole town has taken to the streets. still celebrating, and still surrounded by and Derby County winning the championship is a victory for decency, for honesty and for football. Because they don't pull shirts, or nudge people in the back in the box. (cont'd) They don't protest every decision, chop, hack or bully - unlike some teams could mention - beginning with the letter laugh... (cont'd) If you ask me, the best thing for British football, the quickest way to clean it up, would be fore dirty sides like Leeds to be sent down for a spell in Division Two. speaking to outside his home.. haven't personally heard Mr. Clough's comments, but they have been reported to me, and our solicitors are looking into them. If could offer Mr. Clough some advice think he'd be better off keeping his opinions to himself...some of these allegations against Leeds United and his fellow professionals are an absolute disgrace... appearing on half-a-dozen shows. Quick, controversial, charismatic, witty. natural media star, (we intercut our actor with the genuine archive footage) Don Revie? Ooooh. (shudders playfully) Don't mention that name to me. It's really like the other House of Commons. You hate to mention him. Why? hate to mention him why? Because he's a very talented man and don't like him. The audience laughs. (cont'd) He's a very, very talented man and his record is unsurpassable. But just happen not to like him. And don't like the way he goes about football either. Football is a game of opinion and there are perhaps people in your profession who don't like the way you do your bit. Sure. 45aA And er... it makes the game go round. Half the country don't like a Labour government. It just happens that the other half do. Why don't you want me to ask why you don't like him? Because can't tell you. It's impossible. We'd get closed down, David. pipe smoking football journalist, sits in a television studio, Brian, you've been called big-headed, arrogant, brash, the lot - By your profession, John, yeah. Sure. And a whole of it right too. And a whole lot of it wrong. Fine. I'll concede that. So how would you define your approach to management, apart from being brilliant? All laugh. (laughing, rubbing eye) Good lad. Thank you for the compliment. It's very, very difficult when you get asked a question like that. black and white footage, speaking into a bakolite telephone.. You've achieved something here that most managers struggle for years to achieve this. It's come to you very young. Are you surprised? 45aB sits at home, his on his lap. Suprised, David..but more than surprised, delighted. It's nice isn't it. For the good guys to win for once. Which for you was the most important match to win and the best performance from your point of view... Beating Leeds United, obviously. Always a particular pleasure that. Brian, you've also done it on comparatively small gates, which know has niggled you a little bit during the season. Niggled me, David, it's absolutely made me blazing. To be honest, know what want to achieve, know what the people of Derby want us to achieve, but when you've got a chairman not wanting to put his hand in his pocket... the highest rating talk show on (cont'd) You ever see eighty five or perhaps ninety percent of chairmen talking - I'd love a few chairmen on your programme occasionally - believe the very sight of them brings the game into disrepute (some clap in the audience). And every time they open their mouths it kills it. Because the very thing they've given me a lot of stick about over the years - about talking too much and going on television too much, there are the very people who can put two words together and its rather embarrassing to me that a man - or men - can stop me talking to people like you. love football. It's deep, it goes right down through. It's in every nerve, vein, you name it. It consumes me. And when have to come and talk about like the passions of football to come out. Because there are not enough in the game. (cont'd) like a bit of the honesty, like a bit of the truth. accept without any shadow of a doubt that talk too much, apart from on this show. Laughter. How do you react when someone says "Boss, you're doing it wrong?" say, "How do you think it should be done?" We talk about it for twenty minutes, then we decide was right. ..the world knows who am. The world knows talk a lot. (con t'd) But there's some fellow in London, England named...."Brian Clough"... (audience laughter) Anyway heard all the way in America, They say he's another Mohammed Ali. Well, there's just Mohammed Ali. want you to know... (jabbing finger) Clough...you are not taking my job. I'm the talker. Now, Clough...enough. and surrounded by and with flowers, telegrams, bottles of champagne, boxes of cigars. Watching the Mohammed Ali on television. Are you going to stop it? No, want to fight him! They roar with laughter. Cheers and celebration. Everyone roughing up CLOUGH's hair, patting him on the back. The QUEEN's face. Full-frame. Beside her portrait of Her Majesty the Queen and the Duke of Kent hangs on an oak-pannelled wall: the Patron and the President of the Football Association.. Beneath the portrait: a long table in a boardroom. An austere six-man disciplinary committee of the Blazers and buttons. Whiskers and power. Aldermen, Freemasons, Generals, white-hair and golden buttons. Admirals, Presidents and Vice-Presidents. Sitting in front of the committee... and Like schoolchildren.. William Bremner, your conduct in the Charity Shield match was deplorable and cannot be tolerated. It was. We understand Leeds are taking disciplinary action against you internally, however the Football Association has to be seen to make an example. We have therefore decided to impose a fine of five hundred pounds.. CLOUGH's face: a victorious look. Thank you.. ...and a suspension until September 30th... "Bang", he brings down a gavel. CLOUGH's face: the smile fades.. (disbelieving laugh) What? September 30th? That's more than a month? Thats six bloody weeks?? I'll make it seven if you carry on with language like that.. C'mon, double the fine. Treble it. Anything. Don't suspend him for that long. He's my Captain. The best player I've got. The get to their feet and walk out. CLOUGH's face: the sound of a ringing phone. The sound of a familiar voice at the other end.. Hello? in his cheap hotel-room. TAYLOR's voice the other end.. suppose you've heard! freezes, hearing the voice, (we intercut as necessary for the remainder of the call).. God...what time is it? Suspended for eleven bloody games!! know. You're buggered. Billy Bremner's the heart and soul of that team. Plus Mike Jones and Eddie Gray are injured. Like said. You're buggered. What do do, Pete? need new players. Tell me who to buy. No, Brian. Help me. C'mon, we'll sort this place out together. You and me. Turn it around. It's too late. I'd have helped you once. But not now. Not after what was said. We're on our own now. Each man for himself. Remember? "Click", hangs up. stares at the receiver. The same sign as earlier. stares at the sign as he parks his car in the space beside it. stab in his heart. walks along a corridor. Sees the training outside. players. players. To one side, and looks out at them. He winks, discreetly at them. They look back, and nod. Then get back to work. The sound of laughter. The camaraderie of a family. What a contrast to Leeds. walks along a corridor with photos on the wall. Framed photos of victories. club. family. home. walks into the office to see behind his desk. Who gets to his feet. Extends his hand. Well, look who it is! Come to raid my larder? Or just missing the place? McGovern and O'Hare. I've spoken to them on the phone. They want to come and play for me. Aye, and you can have `em. hundred and fifty thousand pound for the pair. Cheeky sod! They're not worth a penny more than seventy. But you're desperate now, aren't you? Having lost to Stoke and Birmingham.. (a beat) All, right, since it's you..I'll knock ten grand off. Give you a hundred grand. One thirty. Final offer. is about to explode, then.. All right. Done. The two shake hands. Barely. (cont'd) So? Enjoying yourself? Two wins from two. What's not to enjoy? You? Loving it. Different class, Leeds. Proper club. club. Demand results there, though, Brian. Hey, it's `Boss' to you. Not any more. bought you when you were crocked, you fat bastard. And gave you the two best years of your career. It will always be `Boss' to you. walks to the door. He turns, and indicates the desk. (cont'd) Ever tempted to burn that bloody desk? Chop it up and burn it? Why would do that? Exorcise the bloody place. Get rid of me. Why? You're not here anymore, are you? Be a waste of a perfectly good desk. driving his car. Clenching the steering wheel in fury. Fucking Scot. It's late: with in the bar.. McGovern and O'Hare? Can't believe he actually sold them to you. It must be true, then.. What? The rumour that he's after buying Duncan Mackenzie. It's why he needs the money. Who's Duncan Mackenzie? the sound of a ringing phone... long-haired, chain-smoking, bemused, stands in the lobby of the hotel. we hear... Is that Duncan Mackenzie? Yes. This is he. Now listen to me. You go get your coat and your skates on because you're coming to meet me at the Victoria Hotel in Sheffield in half and hour. And Duncan? Yes, Mr. Clough. Bring a bloody pen, because you're signing for Leeds United today. `Pop', a uncorks champagne, pours it into glasses. and his three sheepish new signings: and sit uneasily in the bar. Congratulations, lads!! My first signings for Leeds. My Leeds United. Playing with flair and winning with honour. Winning the `right' way. And winning the admiration of fans all over Europe because... Because of the way we play. Because of the way we play!!! lights a cigarette.. (cont'd) We're going all the way, lads. Inter Milan, Barcelona. We're going to win silverware Don Revie could only dream of. Yes, Boss. And you, Mr. Mackenzie, you scored twenty-eight goals last season. You'll score me twenty-nine goals this. Yes, Mr. Clough. Do you know how many goals scored before got injured? I'm sorry, Mr. Clough. don't. Two hundred and fifty-one. and privately exchange looks, "Here goes". (cont'd) Do you know how many games it took me? I'm sorry, Mr. Clough, don't. Have a guess. Go on... mouths "Two hundred and seventy-four".. Three hundred? closes his eyes, "Moron." Two hundred and seventy-four! Now what do you think about that? Is that a record, Mr. Clough? (rolling eyes) `Course it's a bloody record. shoots a look to the others.. (cont'd) You know what you lot can do that's even more important? You can be my eyes and ears in that dressing room. Yes, Mr. Clough/Yes, Boss Need to know what they say about me. Who's making trouble. Who the ringleaders are. Yes, Mr. Clough. Want you to help me clear this place out. Make it team, understand. team. Clean it up and clear it out once and for all. Yes, Mr. Clough. indicates MACKENZIE's drink.. Now c'mon, drink up. We're off to meet the press. Yes, Mr. Clough. knocks back his champagne.. And Duncan..? Yes, Mr. Clough? It's "Boss" from now on. There's a good lad. Yes, Mr. Clough. sighs and goes. and roll their eyes. stubs his cigarette, and hurries after them.. "Flash", photographs are being taken by of the three new signings, and all wearing Leeds shirts. they are being watched from a distance by several Leeds players.. walks through a corridor, brushing past and several other An intimidating atmosphere.. What the hell did you buy them for? Waste of bloody money. Duncan Mackenzie scored twenty-eight goals last season. John O'Hare and John McGovern are both internationals. We've got two strikers, Alan Clarke and Mick Jones, they're internationals, too. And one's injured and the other's fucking suspended. Maybe if you spent a little more time here on the training ground with us, you wouldn't need to buy Derby "rejects". (a beat) We've a game Saturday. Against Queens Park Rangers. Or had you forgotten? haven't forgotten. Well, you haven't told us a single thing about how will play. Mr Revie would have files and dossiers prepared. Had the reserves playing the Rangers way all week. Had the first team looking out for this and that. Bollocks to Mr. Revie! You're professional footballers. Stop Stan Bowles! That's all you need to know about And don't have to justify myself to you. Not how or when conduct training. Not who buy or pick to play. No. Not to us. But come Saturday afternoon, there'll be 40,000 people here who you have to justify yourself, to. et al walk off. left, staring. a large The trudge in, after the game. Angry. Heads hung low. Begin to strip off. 1, Leeds 0." enters. Visibly gutted by the result, but now's not the time to show it.. Sorry, lads. walks round the dressing-room, shaking hands individually, patting on the back... (cont'd) You were robbed out there today. Broad bloody daylight. That was never a penalty. CLOUGH's tone is sensitive. Tactful. Considerate. (cont'd) Stan Bowles? Diving like that? Man's a disgrace.. But several of the refuse his hand. Or freeze at his touch. Turn away from him.. (cont'd) I've spoken to the referee already. Given him a piece of my mind. And come Monday morning, mark my word, shall be taking this further... The stare at one another. Shoot one another looks. (cont'd) Anyway, want you all to know, I'm not in the slightest bit critical of your performance today. Not a bit of it. You were terrific out there... spits in contempt. turns and walks out, into the showers. (cont'd) couldn't ask for more effort. Commitment. (tailing off) Passion. The follow. Finally and too. deathly silence. is left alone in the dressing-room. the sound of a ringing telephone. gruff answers.. Hello? It's the middle of the night. speaks into the phone, visibly the worse for wear from alcohol... You must be loving this. Loving every minute. REVIE's face, half-asleep. Visibly irritated. He sits up in bed. stout Yorkshire matron wakes beside him. Who is this? Watching it all fall apart. It's Brian Clough. What? They won't play for me. Your boys. Your bastard sons. And never will. Are you drunk, man? It's two in the morning. What do you want? Why are you ringing me here? They're loyal to you. Thought you'd like to know that. Loyal to Big Daddy Don.. For God's sake go to sleep. Where's you dignity, man? And don't call here again. "Click", hangs up. stares at the receiver. The Leeds Coach arrives at Derby. Hydraulic brakes hissssssss. Doors open. Boots, shoes, walk down steps. and the Leeds disembark. walk towards the Derby dressing-rooms.. stands by the window, looking out into the car park. He sees the Leeds United Reads their mood. Their faces. Their focus. Their murderous intent. flicker of concern on LONGSON's face. He thinks, then calls out to his Get me today's team sheet, will you? He lets the curtain fall.. walks through corridors of Elland Road, carrying the team sheet. Walking towards the dressing-rooms. He turns a corner and runs into What's up, Uncle Sam? Bit below stairs for you here, isn't it? Taken a wrong turn somewhere? Just seen the team sheet. Hinton, O'Hare, Todd, Mackay. (looks left and right) That's our strongest side. Of course it's our strongest side. It's Leeds United. Would you prefer sent out the apprentices? We're at Juventus mid-week. Semi-final of the European Cup. Biggest night in the club's history!! Couldn't you just field... What? Y'know... weaker side? Am hearing right? Is the of this football club seriously asking his manager to You know what mean.. Against their biggest rivals? The Chairman of this football club is asking his manager to be pragmatic. Manage his resources. Prioritise. We've embarked on a huge program of refurbishment and improvements. New stands. Better floodlights. We need a good run in Europe to pay for it. I'm going to pretend didn't hear a word of this. turns to walk away. calls after him.. (checking watch) We've still got twenty minutes before kick-off. I'd reconsider if were you. wouldn't want my employer to be unhappy.. My employer? Chairman of Derby County. And Chairman before you ever showed up. That's right. You were Chairman of Derby County before came here. remember that. When Derby County were at the fucking foot of the Second Division, when nobody had heard of them for twenty years and nobody had heard of Sam bloody Longson ever. Full stop. And that's where you'd still fucking be if it wasn't for me; at the foot of the bloody Second Division, where nobody remembered you and nobody had heard of you. There would no Derby County without me, no league title, no Champions of England; not without Brian Clough. door opens and walks out in time to hear... I'm going to give you some good advice, Brian Clough. (cont'd) No matter how good you think you are, or how clever, or how many fancy new friends you make on the telly, the reality of footballing life is this: the Chairman is the boss, then come the directors, then the secretary, then the fans, then the players, and finally, last of all, bottom-of-the- heap, lowest of the low, the one in the end we can all without, is the bloody manager. turns and storms off. looks at What have you done now? doesn't answer, and storms off in the opposite direction. is left alone, visibly anxious. watches from the touch-line as the game is in progress. a Leeds scythes into a Derby the referee blows his whistle. and leaps off his bench in fury. Shouting abuse.. You're a bloody disgrace! You should be in the book for that, Cherry! the referee blows his whistle. smiles to himself as a Derby is carried off on a stretcher. (cont'd) You're an animal. fucking animal, Hunter! watches from the director's box. He closes his eyes. witnesses this.. another brutal tackle, another whistle. Another Derby hobbles off the pitch. Blood streaming from a cut to his head.. (cont'd) I'll see you in fucking court, Lorimer! CLOUGH's eyes meet REVIE's eyes along the touchline. Afterwards: the and players file off the pitch. brushes roughly past (under his breath) Good luck in Europe.. turns, `What?" carries on walking down the tunnel. Laughing to themselves.. is joined by and Afterwards: the Derby dressing-room looks like the Emergency Room at a hospital.. Casualties. Blood. Stitches. Swellings. At least half-a-dozen are injured. Some on stretchers. stares in horror at the wreckage from the doorway. appears beside him. Stares at You fucking idiot. turns and walks away. turns to survey the carnage in the dressing-room. Like a battlefield. CLOUGH's eyes meet TAYLOR's. The most important night in Derby's history as the Derby players arrive in Turin to play against mighty Juventus.. and the children. Huddled together round the television. Eating supper. Watching the Juventus game on There's Dad, look! and the watch intently. But score one goal. Then another. The final whistle. win 3-1. (cont'd) Pity. gets to her feet... (cont'd) All right. Bed time! Everyone clean your teeth! Wait..! Look..! is in the tunnel. Speaking to a television Disappointed? Not a bit. My players were heroic out there tonight. Effectively we were playing the Italian champions with a reserve team. That many of our first team are injured... continues. stands beside him, visibly pale, stressed... ...it's what happens if you have a Chairman who authorizes a multi- million pound refurbishment of the director's box and hospitality suites before he pays for a proper squad. Suppose it depends on your priorities. Players or prawn sandwiches? know which I'd prefer. know which honest, working class Derby supporters would prefer, too.. commotion breaks out. ask questions, sensing a great story. continues answering as, beside him, (unseen by anyone else)... is white-faced, holding his chest. pouring brandy into a glass. and sit in front of him. Visibly uncomfortable. Billy Bremner, Boss. Who else? Norman Hunter. Who else? Eddie Gray. Who else? Peter Lorimer. What are they saying? This falls to who knocks back his drink. Trembling hands. Dutch courage. That you're never here. (a beat) That they're worried about the future. (a beat) That you're just going to fill the place with more Derby players. And that all thing's considered they were all a lot happier under... Under who? dries. Cannot find the words.. (cont'd) Don Revie? avoid his eyes.. (cont'd) Is that what they say? Yes, Boss. That he's the boss? The Guvnor? The Capi di Tutti Fucking Capi? Yes, Boss. And that they miss the bingo. The bingo? And the carpet bowls. Carpet bloody bowls? It helps them relax before a game. and stare at one another.. That it, Boss? Can we go now? stares, lost in thought: the three go. The door closes. is left alone. Then he gets up, and in a terrifying flash of rage, picks up his glass and throws it against the wall.. walks out into the car park, then he stops in his tracks when he sees.. and (among others), with their and and being shown brand new cars by a takes aside.. What's all this? Club cars. Complimentary for the senior payers. Brand new. sees and trying out the sports cars. His smile fades. He walks up to the from the Nice to meet you, pet. Now, you can take your lovely sports cars, and put `em back on your transporter.. What? What are you talking about? These are ours! You'll have complimentary cars when you deserve a compliment. Right now you don't deserve a complimentary bicycle between you. takes the and gives them to the (cont'd) Complimentary cars when you're not suspended.. (indicates ...and when you lot start winning some games.. (indicated and goes back to his own car.. (cont'd) If had my way, you'd to the ground and back every game.. gets into his car, and roars out, past glowering glowering glowering glowering and CLOUGH's car pulls up outside his house in Derby. He closes his eyes. Breathes a private sigh of relief. Home. At last. Safe. Surrounded by people who love him. walks into his house. What are you doing here? Aren't you supposed to be in that hotel in Leeds? couldn't stand it for another night. takes off his coat... What? So you drove all the way? What time will you have to get up in the morning... Half five. bends down. Kisses his wife. (cont'd) You smell nice. Do Forgotten what a woman smells like. strokes his head. Not like bloody men. That's for sure. looks into his room. The eldest is fast asleep, but the youngest says, `Dad?' You still awake? You should be asleep. Tell us a joke, Dad? joke? All right. There's this bloke walking about in London, when all of a sudden, the city gets hit by a Russian bomb. Booooooooom. sits down, strokes his son's head.. (cont'd) And all the buildings have fallen down. And all the people are dead. And now this bloke is the only man left in the whole of London. continues stroking his son's hair.. (cont'd) And he suddenly feels very, very lonely because there's no one else to talk to. Nobody else but him. CLOUGH's falls asleep. doesn't notice.. (cont'd) So he decides that he's had enough, that he can't bear being this lonely, and so he climbs up to the top of the one building still standing. The Post Office Tower. And then he jumps off. And he's falling down, down and down and down, the sixteenth floor, the fifteenth floor, the fourteenth, and that's when he hears the phone ringing... looks down. And gets two unexpected shocks. The first is that his is already asleep. The second is, there is a tear running down his own cheek. The clatter off the pitch. Covered in mud. Walking in silence. No smiles. Heads hung low.. is waiting for The Chairman wants to see you. Said it was important. Right away. CLOUGH's face: already fearing the worst. walks along the corridor. Past the photographs on the wall. The trophies in the cabinets. The pictures of a smiling - mocking him. shoots his cuffs. Rolls his neck. boxer on his way to the ring. gladiator on his way to the circus. He knocks on the door, and walks in. and a third man. stranger. About bloody time. Where you been? was about to send out a search party. Look, Mr. Cussins, know it's not been the best of starts, but in my defence, there are a couple of things I'd like to say... This is Martin Hughes. He runs Mercedes here in the North. (double-takes) What? We hear that's what you like to drive. Mercedes? It's..what used to drive at Derby. Yes. Well, we can't have Leeds United being outdone by Derby County, can we? So Martin here is going to take you over to his showroom and get you sorted out. They begin to walk to the door. puts his arm round (cont'd) Also we figured if you were sitting in a spanking new car yourself, you might be a little more bloody lenient with your senior players, who've kicked off, as you can imagine - being denied what's rightfully theirs. Never come between a footballer and his motor! No. Especially not Billy bloody Bremner. smiles nervously, visibly relieved... Is that it, then? Why? You look white as a ghost, man. tightens his grip again, arm round Unmistakably intimidating.. (cont'd) What did you think we'd asked you up here for? CUSSINS's eyes. CLOUGH's eyes. The air crackling with menace and intent. visits in a large, crowded ward of old, infirm, dying people. It's a shock. Heart attack, eh? Had it three weeks ago, they reckon. (cont'd) They ran all kinds of tests. Asked me about my diet and my family history. (cont'd) told them the only thing they needed to know was that share my professional life with Brian Clough. That seemed to satisfy them. manages a smile. Moved. (cont'd) I'm only half-joking, you know. Have we still got jobs? We have. Longson's tried to put a gagging order on me, of course. (mimics) "Any further utterances in public or appearances in the media by Brian Clough will be met with instant dismissal." Well, hope you take notice. And act accordingly. Would you like to hear my contrite reply? pulls out a letter.. (cont'd) "Due to the complete breakdown in communication with the chairman, Peter Taylor and find it is impossible to continue our good work for Derby County. We therefore wish to tender our resignations with immediate effect." (horrified) What do you think? don't want to resign. No. Nor do Don't worry, they'll never let us. We just won them the championship. But it will strengthen our position and force them to get rid of Longson. What? Oh, no, Brian. They'll never do He's Chairman. can't do it, Pete. can't work with my hands tied, a Chairman telling me what can or cannot do. You're picking the wrong enemy. The enemy's not Longson. It's Revie. And your obsession with Leeds. Don't be daft. We won the league, Pete. We're top dogs in Derby now. And Longson can't stand it. That's the problem. No, it's not. It's This monster in you. This mad ambition. It comes and goes. Sometimes it's good...a fire, that stirs everything up, and then there's this...this thing that takes you over...and destroys everything that is good in your life. TAYLOR's face... (cont'd) Please tell me this letter is just a draft. You haven't sent it. Because I'll be out in a couple of days...let me talk to them. "Crash", door fly open. storms down a corridor. "Bang", crashes into the boardroom. When they see voices fall silent. They stiffen.. What are you doing? You weren't supposed to accept our resignations. `Shouldn't bloody well offer them, then. turns to the other only did because of (points at You can't get rid of us. It'd be a disaster for the club. For the whole of Derby. You can't keep shooting your mouth off the way you have been...or issuing these ultimatums.. The board stare at one another, avoid eye contact.. (cont'd) With great reluctance your resignations have been accepted. You can't do this! It's madness! The decision stands. And don't even think of a settlement. You're getting nowt. We're going to create a footballing dynasty here. Derby could be one of the greats alongside United, Liverpool, Leeds.. stands in the middle of the room. Speechless. Car keys on the table and out! stares in disbelief at the other Does none of you have the guts to stop this? Now! And don't show your faces here again! stares in disbelief at the assembled board members of Derby County.. et al. Blazers and brass buttons. The sound of clearing throats.. News footage: Prime Minister Ted Heath announcing blackouts due to the oil crisis. Britain is plunged into power-cuts. And total darkness. Three days a week. walks through the open door. meeting is underway in the house. In the hall: CLOUGH's three stare through banister railings.. The smoke-filled front room is packed with Newspapers are strewn over the table. sits in the corner, being given counsel by reads out a letter from the "To the directors of Derby County Football Club. We, the undersigned players, are unanimous in our support and respect for Mr. Clough and Mr. Taylor and ask that they be reinstated as manager and assistant manager of the club." Cheers and celebrations. is congratulated. Handshakes. Hair ruffled.. (cont'd) "Signed by John O'Hare, Roy MacFarland, Colin Todd, Archie Gemmill, Kevin Hector, Alan Hinton.." But not Dave Mackay. Silence. All voices stop. Heads turn. (cont'd) Who's just accepted the job. Deathly silence. The crowds part. sits up, and stares.. What? Dave It's in the evening paper. signed that fat fuck - saved his professional life. Gave him two more years as a player, as my captain. Dave Mackay? (a beat) He wouldn't fucking sees the paper. CLOUGH's face. Devastated. Why did you do it? love this place, Brian. I'm happy here. So are you. It's not over yet, Pete. The lawyers are issuing a writ tomorrow. Against Longson. The players are calling a meeting. There's talk of them coming out on strike. There's protest marches scheduled for this week-end. Why couldn't you just have kept your mouth shut? We'll never find anywhere like this again. stares. Worried. At that moment, sticks her head outside. (holding phone) Mike Bamber on the phone? Who's Mike Bamber?? Manager of Brighton and Hove Albion. Someone who wants to offer us a job. the sound of a referee's whistle.. With a loud the game against Luton gets under way. takes his seat alone in the dugout. Unseen by him, in the stands behind him... arrives, shaking hands, taking a seat. Immediately, as soon as they see the start cheering, "There's only one Don Revie.." turns, to see Waving back. Acknowledging the crowd. The chant, "There's only one Don Revie!" In the directors' box, notes the reaction of the crowd. In the press boxes, the and also note the reaction of the crowd... CLOUGH's face: stinging with humiliation. And as if that weren't bad enough... Luton score a goal. In the director's box: face.. Afterwards: and the walk down the tunnel to see and waiting. Grim-faced. Players Lounge, Brian. Ten minutes. opens his mouth, is about to reply, but has turned and walked away. walks in as several players walk in, too. takes a seat. calls for quiet... This is the worst start to a season Leeds has had in twenty years. Four points from five games? Second from fucking bottom? What's going on? As far as can see, there's no relationship, no understanding between players and management. Not a healthy one, anyway. heads low. Avoiding CLOUGH's eyes. Perhaps if Mr. Clough were to step outside, we would all feel a little more like speaking our minds. can't help smiling.. (under his breath) You bastard. Of course, will reprimand him. Refuse his request. looks at and Then.. All right. If you wouldn't mind, Brian? Just for a minute or two? cannot believe his ears. What?? He gets to his feet. As you wish. walks out of the room. watches. Visibly shocked. closes the door behind him. He stands in the corridor outside. From inside, we hear.. No one likes him. The atmosphere in the dressing-room is non-existent. We're not allowed to mention Mr. Revie's name... He's banned us from doing all the things we used to do...like playing bingo and carpet bowls... Tactically, he's never prepared, never tells us how he wants us to play... You know he's just itching to bring in a whole lot of new players.. looks out of the window to see signing autographs, shaking hands with adoring outside.. What's going on? turns to see The last two words of every story ever written is what's going on. "The fucking end." What want to know is why, after all the thing he's said about us, did you appoint him in the first place? I'm about to go home and work out how much want in severance pay. Don't worry, I'll make sure your job is safe. I'm not staying here without you. No bloody way. Then suggest you go home and do the same. What me and the lads are trying to say, Mr. Cussins, is that compared to Mr. Revie - he's just not good enough... a dagger in his heart.. Come on. turns, leading away, then he stops. Having seen something through a window.. Outside: walks down into the car park and towards his car - cheered and clapped every step of the way by The Messiah of West Yorkshire... Seagulls wheeling. CLOUGH's car pulls up in a hotel car park. He and get out on a road overlooking the sea.. looks around at his surroundings. The The retirement home feel. (singing) "Oh, don't like to be beside the seaside.." C'mon, just give it a chance. Brighton and Hove Albion? Have you seen where they are? Bottom of the third division. And we can get them out of there. Like that. We did it with Hartlepools. We did it with Derby. We cared about Hartlepools and Derby. We're from the North, Pete. What do we care about Brighton? Bloody Southerners. Look where we are. We're almost in France. Hey, they've got money, this lot. And ambition. And get a lungful of that air. It'd be good for my health. You can't manage a team that's not your own people. Not what you know. Anyway the Protest Movement in Derby is still in full flow. We could still get our jobs back. No, we won't. It's over, Brian. They'll never take us back. Not now. What about proper clubs? Like Manchester United? Or Spurs? Or England, now Alf's gone. Wouldn't you fancy that? No one's rung, have they? You've scared them all off. It's only been a couple of weeks. C'mon. Just listen to them? Please? For me? and Brighton Chairman and Vice- Chairman, likeable men, (for the first time in blazers and brass buttons), sit opposite and Sign today, I'll give you a bonus of seven grand. Each. Seven grand? Y'hear that, Brian? Plus a salary that exceeds by twenty percent what Derby were paying you. Very generous, Mike. Terrific. But those are first division wages. First division's where want this club to be. Are you sure you can afford it? Are you sure you're worth it? Cheeky sod. offers his hand. stares at it.. (cont'd) We're going to need a holiday first. Take as long as you like. Two weeks. Somewhere hot. On you. doesn't even flinch. Smiles.. I'll even throw in the bloody trunks. and shake. beams with delight. we fade in the sound of classical Spanish guitar.. Shimmering heat. Azure skies. Packed sandy beaches. We're in a resort in Southern Majorca. Calla Millor. Red-faced Brits. Sausages and chips. Beer and sun tan lotion. On the beach, is playing with the three in the shallow water. They wave over to Brian. sitting in the sand, sunning-himself. (Reading a newspaper about REVIE's flirting with the England job). blazer with buttons. red-faced, official-looking in his mid 50's, being pointed onto a beach by a hotel Red-faced, perspiring, nods. Starts walking onto the beach. walks across the beach, the scalding sand, sweating under the merciless sun... Until he finds takes out his handkerchief, mops his brow.. You're a hard man to find, Mr. Clough. Who's looking? My name's Keith Archer. Secretary of Leeds United football club. looks up, can't help smiling.. Then what are you doing here, Keith? Because from what I'm reading in my paper, and from what hear on the jungle drums, you've got a bit of a problem at home with your manager flirting with the England job. He's not flirting... (indignant, pointing to newspaper) `Ey, it says it right here. He's taken it. turns, squints in the light... (cont'd) Which bring me to the point of my visit. and look over from the beach, concerned. smiles nervously, politely raising his hat... Seagulls wheeling. Two tiny specks on the beach in the distance, arguing. Silhouettes against the setting sun.. Bloody hell. But we Leeds. It's the top flight, Pete. The First Division. But we've given Brighton our word. And they've paid us the money. We can pay the money. Bollocks to bloody Brighton. (laughing now, a dismissive wave) I'd go mad. We'd go mad down there. Please...give it a year. Give it a chance. year? It'd be death. Death for us all. Mike Bamber is a good man.. Oh, do me a favour.. He had faith in us, offered us a job when no one would. He offered us a job. And now someone else has offered us a better one..and not just anyone. The best team in the country. C'mon, Pete, you know what that means.. It'd be the Charity Shield at Wembley in a months time. The European Cup after.. Yes, but even if we won them it would always be Revie's achievements. team.. 83AaA (cont'd) (fretting) can't do it. gave Brighton my word. What? And you'd sooner fester down there? With all those fucking Tories? In that blue-rinse retirement home by the sea? Yes, Brighton is a small club.. Fucking midgets. But at least we'd be together, you and me. We could build them up. Make them our own. Like we did with Hartlepools. Like we did with Derby. And then what? Bottle again as soon as it comes to the big time. That's always been the trouble with you, Pete. No ambition. And that's the trouble with you. Too much ambition. Too much greed. Too much everything. You knock it, but it's done you proud over the years. My "ambition". Without me - you'd still be stuck in Burton Albion. On the arse of the footballing earth. But without you I'd still have a job in Derby. job and a home that love. (a beat) Yes, Brian - you're the shop window, I'll grant you that. The razzle and the bloody dazzle. But I'm the goods at the back. And without me, without someone to save you from yourself, you're not just half.. (tapping brain) ...you're nothing. starts to walk. calls after him.. I'm nothing? I'm nothing?? Don't make me laugh? So what does that make you, Taylor? Something?? You're half of nothing!! Nothing's parasite! big fat pilot fish that on nothing!! bloody nobody!! The forgotten man!! History's fucking afterthought!! walks off, leaving Well, let's see, shall we? The faces: etc Let's be honest. It's not working, is it? What's not working? haven't been here five minutes, so how can anything be working yet? Still...the players aren't happy. We're not happy. So what do you want to do about it? If it's not working, then we'll have to part company. Fine. It'll cost you twenty-five grand. The Leeds choke... What? For six weeks work? Plus three and a half grand for Jimmy Gordon. And an agreement that Leeds United will pay both our income taxes for the next three years. The Leeds choke... That's bloody criminal. No, what's criminal, Mr. Cussins, is the way you as Chairman asked me to leave the room like that in front of the players. Your Going behind my back like that. admit, that was wrong. And you can throw in the Merc and all. What? Might be a bit flash for a man out of a job, but the truth is, I've grown to like it. Who the bloody hell do you think you are? Brian Clough. Brian Howard Clough. Aye. No danger of me forgetting name in a hurry. and his are packing together CLOUGH's belongings in a couple of boxes. knock at the door.. comes in, in track suit, a cigarette in hand. Ready for the day's training.. Just wanted to say, it's not right. They should have given you more time. Good lad. Not just me that feels that way, either. The sad thing is, it won't work. You can't change a manager like a pair of socks. It'll happen once, to me - and never again. shakes CLARKE's hand. `Rrrrinng', the phone rings. turns and picks up the phone. He listens, then.. (cont'd) (into phone) All right. But you'll have to make it quick. hangs up. Looks at his (cont'd) Something we have to do on the way. Won't take long. sits in make-up. The door opens and the same presenter as earlier, sticks his head round the corner.. Thanks for agreeing to this. No problem. smiles. Uncharacteristically vulnerable. (cont'd) Go easy on me, though. There's a good lad. is led into the studio, and onto the `Calender' set, chatting to the CLOUGH's microphone is fixed, he is shown to his seat beside the PRESENTER's. Then notices a third (empty) seat beside his.. What's this? We expecting guests? Then looks up to see a distinctive with gold buttons approaching the set... Blue blazer. DON's blazer. CLOUGH's face falls as and turn the corner, in conspiratorial conversation, and out to the seats.. It's a set-up! looks over at and the crew, who shiftily avoids CLOUGH's eyes.. (cont'd) You bastards! is put in the seat beside Avoiding CLOUGH's eyes. rolls his neck, crosses his legs. Vast, intimidating Ready for battle. Suddenly, the theme music plays, the counts down.. Five, four, three.. The looks up.. Good evening. Tonight the football world was stunned by the news that Brian Clough has been sacked as manager of Leeds United. We'll be talking not just to Brian Clough, but also to the man he replaced, who's success he couldn't emulate, Don Revie. turns to (cont'd) To Brian Clough first of all. What's your reaction to being sacked in this fashion? Obviously, Austin, my initial reaction is one of shock at finding myself here with Revie... See? Not so easy to make accusations when it's to someone's face... ...but in answer to your question, six weeks is hardly a long time to be given a chance in any job. would hope Revie would get a lot longer time in his. Do you consider it was possible to step into your shoes, Don Revie? To replace you? Being very, very honest, think it was a difficult job for anyone to do. But do feel Brian Clough, won't call him Clough because won't take him down like that.. Thank you. do feel he made it harder for himself than he need have. How did do that, Don? Shooting his mouth off about how dirty my players were. Well, you dirty, Don! That's not true. The last four seasons, we've topped the charts for entertaining football. And before that, you also topped the disciplinary charts. You should have been docked points and sent to the second Division. And in fact, you went on record and said so, Brian Clough. Again and again. That Leeds should, in fact, be relegated. And was right. Do you think that might have hurt your chances of success when you then came to manage them? Of course it did! The things he said? Why, man? Why did you take the job in the first place? Because thought it was the best job in the country. Of course it was the best job in the country. was taking over the League Champions. 90aA You were. You were taking over the best bunch of players you'd ever seen. And fancied winning the league, and winning Europe, and doing it better than you. There's no way you win it better. But that's the only hope I've got. only lost four matches.. Well, can only lose three. No, no, no, no. And still play attractive, clean football. Without cheating! See, there he goes again.. Listening to you, am struck that this is not just a business matter for you both. It's more than that. It's personal. Am right? Well, we're very different people, Don and We have different styles. In football and in life. I'm a warm man. An idealist. do believe in faeries, and that is my outlook. Don is different. There's a hardness to him. hardness. Maybe he's not even aware of it. But he's a cold person. You don't me! And that lack of warmth. That coldness was there. Permeated the club when arrived. totally refute that. The atmosphere at Leeds was like a family. happy family. You ask any of my players. signed most of them personally. Knew their backgrounds. Their parents. Their streets. was a father to them. In that club every morning. Massaging those boys. Did you do that for them? They would never have let me. Did you try? You didn't even try. soaped those boys down with my own hands. You just went to Leeds with no thought for the club, no thought for the players. Just on some kind of mad personal vendetta with me. Well are you surprised? What else was going to do?? After what you did... What did do? C'mon, Don. You know exactly. (cont'd) 4th March 1968. See? even remember the date. You came to Derby County, the third round of the Cup, and you refused to shake my hand. looks up. The look up. Never! Matter of principle! always shake the other manager's hand! You shook Peter Taylor's hand, and my trainer, Jimmy Gordon's. Then probably didn't see you!! No, you saw me Don. But considered me beneath you. Looked down on me. And dismissed me. Just like you did every other club and every other manager in the country. Never would knowingly refuse to shake a colleague's hand. The truth is, probably just didn't know who you were. (a knowing smile) "Didn't know who was!" Pull the other one. It's the truth. (blurts out) Well, you certainly know it All heads turn. That came out unintentionally loud. Oh, we know it now. (a beat) We know you as the man who's constant outbursts, his defaming of fellow professionals, have brought this game, this beautiful game into disrepute. Who had one of the best jobs in the country, at Derby, and managed to get the sack. Who had one of the best partners in the game, in Peter Taylor, and threw him away. Who was given the greatest gift in British football Leeds United, a team that in ten years hasn't finished outside the top four, and took them to the bottom of the first division. Yes, it's fair to say we all know who you are now. MITCHELL's eyes widen. gentlemen, we're going to have to leave it there.. Well, let's see where we are in a year's time, Donald Revie. Dear oh dear.. Let's see where we both are in five! That's it for tonight's show. I'd like to thank Brian Clough and Don Revie for joining me... Thank you, Austin. The show wraps up. Theme music starts playing. removes his microphone, turns and walks out. is left staring, hollow-eyed. Wishing the ground would swallow him up.. written on the side of the stadium. CLOUGH's car driver past. Inside the car: drives, staring at the road ahead. Talk on the radio of CLOUGH's dismissal.. Boys? Do you think your old man is a fool? No. You're wrong. He bloody is. silence. continues to drive. (cont'd) Who is the least mature person in this car? Who most needs to bloody grow up? Who's been making a right arse of himself the past few months? The can't help laughing.. (cont'd) Who fancies a trip to the seaside? To see Uncle Pete? Me! Me, and all. CLOUGH's foot hits the floor. CLOUGH's Mercedes heads `South', and accelerates into the distance. is working in the garden. He looks up to see standing in the gate to his house.. looks at Their eyes meet. poignant moment. They've kicked you out, already? They have. So how long was that? Forty-four days. Impressive. strains not to show his satisfaction.. (cont'd) So what are you doing here? Don't make this difficult for me, Pete...you know why I'm here...and won't bloody grovel. shrugs, "Please yourself". Turns and starts walking inside. (cont'd) All right. I'm grovelling. I'm on my knees. turns. Sees on his knees. Begging for forgiveness. apologize unreservedly for being a twat". apologize for being a twat. "Unreservedly." (through gritted teeth) Unreservedly... "Because can't do it without you." Because can't do it without you. "I'm nothing without you." I'm nothing without you. "Please, please baby, take me back." Fuck off..! tails off, realizing he has no option.. (cont'd) "Please, please baby, take me back." CLOUGH's sons watch from the car as opens his arms, and the two fall into an embrace. But in the clench, TAYLOR's smile fades, his expression suddenly becoming serious. holds tight, and whispers... You'll only fuck me up again, won't you? love you, y'know. know. But it won't stop you. beat. thinks, then.. So? Would you sooner go through it all without me? TAYLOR's face: freeing and condemning himself at once.. Never. Our slowly pulls back: over the Brighton landscape, as and disappear into TAYLOR's house.. Damned United, The : Peter Morgan Da