seventh draft by Sam Raimi and Scott Spiegel Sam Raimi Scott Spiegel - May 5, 1986 sound is building. Like a living wind. thousand screams in agony. From the blackness, gusts of smoke pull together quickly, forming the Main Title against black: Then beneath it, the Roman Numeral brings it toward us. And as the screams reach their sharp crescendo the title zooms through us. Whisping smoke against a black background. In the distance, through the smoke, a small object. It fans toward us quickly, filling the frame. It is an ancient skin covered volume, with the outline of a human face on it's cover. This is the Book of the Dead. Legend has it, that it was written by the dark ones: Roughly translated...The Book of the Dead. The face on the cover of the book pulls away from its skin binding and leans toward the camera. on the book blink open and peer at us. It's mouth opens and emits a hideous scream. The races into the blackness of the screaming mouth. Spiraling downward. To trace the origin of the Book, we must go back...back...to a day when spirits ruled the earth. Wispy shapes of animated ghosts move through this vortex, coming toward the with and and then are gone. When the seas ran red with blood. raging ocean of blood. Great waves rise and swell as if before a storm. It was this blood that was used to ink the book. Through animation, the blank pages of the Book are scripted in a strange hieroglyphic by an invisible hand. Faster and faster the pages turn on the Book as the blood red ink is scrawled across them. The pages flip furiously until the Book snaps shut, reveal ing its gruesome face on the cover. The book flaps violently away from camera. The Book of the Dead was last seen in 1300 panning down to reveal a magnificent newly built castle of stone. Bright banners fly from its turrets. An ox grazes nearby. 4 Warriors on horseback in the It was then that the dark spirits again rose up to battle the living. The ground in front of the castle begins to split apart. red glow and smoke pour from the growing crevice. Something evil is being unleashed. strong wind kicks up blowing sand in a furious rage. Through the blowing silt, a lone figure appears. An image of power and light. His clothing is ragged, and he holds what appears to be a jagged toothed longsword. Two massive columns of stone stand on either side. slowly moves closer, but his face is still hidden by the darkness and blowing sands. It is said that a hero came from the sky. man who defeated this evi and buried the Book in the Castle of Kandar. And there it lay for 700 years... As the raging dust storm clears to reveal the same castle which we saw earlier, but now, in a ruined state. It has aged 700 years. The ox is gone. Now only its petrified skeletal remains stand in a weathered heap. ...Waiting. four wheel drive vehicle roars and toward the castle. The slowly tracks in toward the Book of the Dead as it sits in the darkness of the stone tomb. Next to it rests the an ancient knife, its handle fashioned from the skull of a weasel. They rest upon a small pedestal covered with cobwebs. Prominently displayed on the stone wall, a bas relief of the "Hero from the Sky" holding his unusual jagged edged weapon. And then... The grinding of rock scraping against rock is heard, and a large stone is swung open on a secret hinge in the wall behind the book. Wind sweeps in through the tomb, along with the blinding light from outside. sharply silhouetted figure steps in the newly created doorway. The figure lights a torch that he holds, illuminating his face. This is An intelligent, grey bearded man in his late fifties. He lowers the cloth around his face that had been protecting him from the sand. He stares at the Book, awestruck. Behind him, two other figures appear in the entrance of the tomb. The first is a large school-marmish woman, the wife of Raymond Knowby, She moves to Raymond's side and takes his hand. Immediately behind her is their daughter, twenty-four years old, strong stance and beautiful. Behind her a handsome looking man, enters the tomb. He moves to Annie's side. They exchange excited glances. The down to the Book. Billowing past the camera in front of a black drape. An old log cabin, built in the valley of a dark forest. great wind billows fog about the place. Professor Raymond Knowby and his wife, brought the book to a small cabin where they could study it undisturbed. Professor Raymond Knowby sits at a writing desk and transcribes passages from the Book of the Dead. small framed photograph of his daughter Annie sits upon the table. Behind him, sits knitting in a rocking chair. He speaks the phonetic pronunciation of completed sentences into the microphone of a tape recorder. Kanda...Es-trata...Ta-toon...Hazan sobar...Ear-Grets, Gat, ...Nos-feratos ...Amantos...Kanda! The sound of reciting the passages is faded down away from and over to as she rocks back into the darkness and forward into the light. As she rocks forward into the light, she comes into revealing that her eyes have changed to a milky white. She continues to knit. Blowing past the camera in front of black drape. dank fruit cellar with shelves of half-rotten preserves. Raymond has his back to the stone wall. He is dictating into the tape recorder, sweating and distraught. It has only been a few hours since I've translated and spoke aloud the first of the demon resurrection passages from the Book of the Dead. The sound of heavy footsteps. Dust drifts down Raymond looks up to the ceiling of the cellar. It is also the floor to the main room of the cabin. He watches in horror as Henrietta's silhouette paces the floor above him. And then, the footsteps halt. And now, fear that my wife has become host to a Kandarian demon. May God forgive me for what have unleashed onto this earth. The milky eyed possessed figure of jolts quickly into the frame, and shrieks in the voice of a demon! Raymond Knowby screams. He drops the microphone. As the microphone falls atop it. High pitched feed- back screams from the speaker. Screaming in terror. His fearful eyes fill the screen as the scream continues. Darting about wildly and the scream continues. swiftly down a dark tunnel. light at the end growing closer. The of The Delta 88 Oldsmobile comes out of the tunnel with a of and the sound of loud rock and roll music. It was one week later that a group of college students came to the cabin. The Delta 88 Oldsmobile parked out front. Fog roars past the place. We faintly hear waltz music from within. The silhouette of a woman sweeps by the rear bedroom window. an attractive college student, is waltzing in the semi darkness of the bedroom. She wears a "Michigan State University" sweatshirt. She hums melodically to the music as she moves. Around her neck is draped a delicate silver necklace. handsome young man, is playing the waltz music on an old wooden piano. Linda dances behind him. Ash is not a very good pianist, and can only plunk out the melody with two fingers. Ash, what's that you're playing? Our song. Ash begins to play faster. As she picks up the tempo, spinning and laughing, until finally Ash moves to her, halting her in mid spin. Out of breath, hair tousled across her eyes, she stares deeply into Ash's eyes. Her lips, parted, in a sensual manner. He returns her stare, lost in her beauty. He pulls her close. Ow! And looks down to the tiny silver necklace that she wears about her neck. In its center is a magnifying glass. She looks from the necklace to Ash. really love it. I'll never take it off. They kiss and now begin to dance together, to the haunting waltz melody that sweeps up upon the soundtrack. It was in the cabin's cellar that they found the Professor's tape recorder, and the Book of the Dead. tracks in toward the trap door. It opens by itself as we move down the steps into the blackness. The pans down from the blackness to Ash who finds a shotgun, Raymond Knowby's tape recorder, tapes, the Kandarian dagger and... ...the shattered photograph of Annie Knowby and the Book of the Dead. The group of students sit about the fire as they listen to the tape recorder. Coming from the speaker is the voice of Raymond Knowby reciting the demon resurrection passage. (on tape) Kan Da, Es-trata ta-toon hazan sobar ...Ear-Grets, Gat... Linda takes Ash's hand. She's frightened. Ash smiles to comfort her. She nervously fingers the silver locket she wears about her neck. (on tape) ...Nos-Feratos...Amantos...Kanda! The cabin is in the distance. In the foreground the earth begins to swell, then rips apart as a red glow emanates from beneath. Something evil is being unleashed. One by one, they fell to the possession of the dark spirits. Her eyes pop open. They are bone white. She has fallen to the possession. Possessed Linda is coming after Ash. Ash back peddles, stumbles and falls. As the Shadow of approaching Linda envelops Ash, he picks up a shovel from the ground. Ash swings the shovel, slicing off Linda's head. Linda's head rolls down the hillside and disappears into the darkness. Ash buries Linda's headless body. He jams a crude wooden burial cross into the earth of the grave. bolt of lightning strikes. As he runs from the grave site and toward the cabin. One man, Ash, destroyed the Book. Ash enters the cabin. He sees The Book of the Dead and tosses it onto the flames. possessed demon begins to wither and melt. Flesh shrinks away from its skull and dissolves to nothing. But the evil that had been resurrected from it, lives on. The Book of the Dead is burned to cinders. The face upon the Book screams as it burns. Ash picks himself up from the floor. Ash stands and clutches the necklace of Linda, in sorrow for his loss of her. Ash staggers from the cabin. We are racing forward. We have taken the of an as it glides with dark purpose through a section of woods. It approaches the rear door of the cabin. The door is torn violently open. The next door falls away from us. We approach the front door. It jigsaws in two and we are again outside, now in front of the cabin. Ash is seen in the distance. He is staggering away, his back to us as we race at him. He turns suddenly towards and screams. The final shot of Evil Dead has a new ending; an extension. Ash is caught by an invisible grip. force is distorting Ash's face as he is rocketed backwards. He is swept hand over foot through the air. He reaches the edge of the woods and begins tearing through the branches and smaller trees, clearing a path with his body. He finally slams into a large ungiving tree trunk and he is knocked unconscious. As he falls from the tree branch and plummets towards the earth. puddle of mud below, which rushes up upon us quickly. As his head splashes down into the muddy water. He lifts his face from the mud, and turns toward us. His eyes have gone white. His skin is now a pale color, his lips, jet black. He is Possessed. bright edge of morning sunlight moves across his face. He turns his beastly face skyward. - (Miniature) Rising over a mountain ridge. Sunlight streaming through a gaping hole in the parting clouds, in bright shafts. It pours through the trees. Closer on the sun as it looms larger and brighter. The frame is filled with the rising sun. The bright edge of morning sunlight spreading across his face, he lets loose a demonic death shriek. The white in Ash's eyes swirls about, and his pupils change back to their original brown color. Ash, no longer possessed, collapses into the mud puddle, unconscious. Streams of morning sunlight pierce the darkness of the woods. We hear the shriek of demons. The sound of great wind blows back fog into the darker sections of the woods. The scene grows brighter and the peaceful sounds of morning are faded up. As he lies unconscious. Time passes. His eyes open. They stare blankly up at the sky. Then fear registers and we revealing a vast area of empty woods around Ash. He sits up slowly into frame, looking fearfully about. Panning the battered cabin and sections of the woods. All is peaceful. The sound of birds tweeting. It's gone. He looks up to the sky. Just above the horizon. Sun's driven it away... for now. Gotta get the hell out of here... before night falls. As he nods to himself, then suddenly glances up beyond the perfectly normal log cabin with one exception; superimposed over the front of the place is... hideous human skull with living eyeballs that stare out at us with evil malice. The eyes stare out from the two dark windows. The dark nose area is the open doorway, and the rotted teeth of the skull are the whitewashed stones placed at the foot of the cabin. Then it fades, leaving only the cabin. He shudders uncontrollably as he picks himself up from the mud. Ash His eyes shift back and forth like a trapped animal as he looks about for a means of escape. He spots something. Parked in front of the cabin. He shifts his glance from the car to the road. narrow dirt road cutting through the woods. Then, the Delta 88 roars down it, and past the It kicks up dust and gravel. Ash is driving. He wipes the mud and blood from his face with a rag. As he pulls the rag away, his face forms a sudden look of horror as he sees: towards us. It is the twisted remains of the steel and wood bridge that crossed a great mountain chasm. of brakes is heard on the soundtrack on this cut. As it pulls to a halt. Ash steps quietly from the car. He looks at the bridge. sign hangs from the twisted girders. It reads: Beyond this we see the twisted remnants of the former bridge and the rock cliffs far away on the other side. Ash gapes at the uncrossable chasm. He is stunned at the sight. His only escape, gone. He looks from the bridge to the West. The sun is now resting on the horizon. Lower than it was before. It is and sets in the course of seven seconds. To reveal Ash as he looks from the sunset, to the ruined bridge, to the road behind him. He moves in halting steps, not knowing which way to turn. Ash opens his mouth, draws in his breath, and just as he begins to scream, we As it rises up from what appears to be the mountain chasm and reveals the opposite side of the twisted girders which form the "Giant Hand." It spots Ash immediately beyond. It moves swiftly towaad him. Ash looks up, sensing the evil and darts into the Delta 88. The moves through the twisted girders, pushing them away violently and races towaad the car. The Delta starts up and peels off. The Evil Force just misses it. The car doesn't have the room to complete the one hundred and eighty degree turn necessary to head back down the road the way it originally came, and is forced into a line of break- away trees which explode into sawdust as the front of the Delta 88 rips through them. The car swerves onto the road, headed back toward the cabin. As the broken bits of tree slam against his windshield. As the channel switches suddenly to the hard rock song "Journey to the Center of Your Mind" which blares within the car throughout the chase to follow. As it gives chase to the Delta. Alongside the car as it barrels along the wooded road. As he drives this wild course. As it begins to gain on the speeding automobile. Looking through the windshield, as branches beat and smash themselves against the windshield, obscuring our vision of the "Road" ahead. Our view suddenly clears, revealing a large tree that looms directly ahead. Swerving the wheel. It swerves and slams into a rotted tree, stopping it dead. As he is rocketed forward from his seat. As Ash comes ripping through the windshield and past the As he approaches the ground with a great velocity. As he slams into the earth with a rain of glass. He moans and gets to his feet. As it sweeps down out of the woods, pushing over trees, and approaches the Delta. Steam pours from the hood of the car. As he runs. His face is cut and bleeding. As he runs toward the cabin. (Actually he is running in place in the rear of a camera car that is slowly backing away from the cabin.) The more he runs, the farther away from the cabin he gets. It approaches the rear of the Delta, rips through the back window, moves through the car's interior, music still blasting, and bursts out the remains of the front windshield. We move through the steam of the radiator and approach Ash as he runs for the cabin. As he runs toward the cabin not making much progress as though caught running in a nightmare. He shakes his head "No." Now closer to the cabin. (Again, Ash is running in place in the camera car as it slowly backs away from the cabin.) Now quickly gaining its lost ground. Just a few feet behind Ash. As he runs up the porch steps to the cabin. We race into the cabin, splintering the hall door which Ash had swung shut. Ash retreats into the rear hallway, and swings the hallway door shut. We race right up to the door and it shatters into many pieces as we glide forward. Camera moves through the main room and up to the Hallway door. It shatters in front of us. We close in on Ash as he races down the hallway. We lose him as he swings into the back bedroom of the cabin and slams the door behind him. We rip through this door and enter the rear bedroom, only to see Ash scrambling for the door to the middle bedroom, which we approach and he swings shut in our face. We rip through to reveal Ash scurrying into the Hallway. We follow him through the bathroom, the maze, and back out into the Hallway. We round the corner after him and see that Ash has led us into the main room, but there is not a trace of him. We look about for him, but he is gone. The hallway is bare except for a few dry leaves. The force begins to pull back with an ever-increasing speed, out the front door of the cabin, and deep into the blackness of the woods. static shot of the fireplace. All is quiet. Smoke from the near dead fire wafts up the chimney. We hold on this for a moment. static shot of a closet with it's door half open. The door begins to swing slightly open, revealing a rack of clothes inside. We hold on this for a moment. writing desk with some papers atop it. They begin to tremble and finally blow away from the light breeze that sweeps through the cabin. The down from this desk to reveal a trap door in the floor of the main room. The trap door to the cellar. It is raised up on its hinge an inch or so and in that slight space between the trap door and the floor we see Ash's eyes, looking cautiously about. He breathes a sigh of relief. The cabin in the distance. Fog rolls past. Ed Getly stands in the and watches as an older style twin engine cargo plane flies over the camera and lands. The airplane rolls to a halt. man wearing a jumpsuit ties the airplane off and blocks the wheels while a redcap opens the hatch and helps out Annie Knowby. She carries a glass case in her hand as she moves toward us. Behind her five other passengers emerge from the Plane. Ed approaches Annie. Annie! (smiling at sight of him) Hi. They embrace and kiss. How'd everything go on the expedition? Terrific. found the additional pages from the Book of the Dead. So you said in the telegram. What condition are they in? She holds out the glass case for Ed to look at. Inside are 12 pages from the Book of the Dead. Haven't aged a day in three thousand years. Maybe longer. When do we begin the translations? Tonight. Is everything all set with my father? Should be, but haven't spoken to him in a week, what with no phone in that cabin. Take us about an hour to get there. They arrive at the parking lot. Two new, sharp looking cheverolets and Ed's old style cheverolet. We'll take my car. Ed opens the car trunk. Behind him a redcap pulls up a large steamer trunk on a hand dolly. Ed and the redcap hoist the steamer up into the car's trunk. Annie, you hinted in your telegram that your father was on to something with the first part of his translations. What's the big mystery? What has he found in The Book of the Dead? Maybe nothing. But just possibly... the doorway to another world? Annie slams the car trunk. has taken the of the evil force as it glides eerily through the woods, around trees and over rotted stumps. It moves over a rise revealing a clear view of the boarded cabin in the distance. It approaches. It moves to the window, and peering through the cracks in the boards we see Ash asleep in the rocking chair. Camera begins on hammer, nails, and planking which lay upon the cabin floor. Camera pans to window #1. It is boarded up tight. Camera pans to door. It is repaired. Camera pans to Ash who sleeps in the rocking chair in front of another boarded window. Ash awakens suddenly, sensing something, the shotgun clutched in his lap. He lifts his head and turns to a whispering musical sound. Harp like music. It is coming from the back bedroom of the cabin. As he stands and moves cautiously towards the rear bedroom. As he approaches the rear bedroom, the music grows louder. As he enters the room he halts his gaze on the old wooden piano. As he moves to the piano. The sound is coming from within. Suddenly, the piano begins to play by itself; Ash draws back from it. It plays a waltz. Now the piano music mixing with the harp-like strings. The radiator next to the piano begins to release bursts of musical steam, adding a wind section to this strange orchestra. As he listens to this haunting version of a waltz melody. He recognizes the music. It is the same music that Ash had played earlier, when Linda was dancing. As steam spouts from the radiator pipes. As the piano keys depress and release themselves. The melody grows louder. As he lowers his head. His horror gives way to sadness. From his pocket he removes Linda's delicate silver locket that dangles from the end of a chain. In the locket's center is a magnifying glass. He stares mournfully into the glass. He looks up sharply toward the main room. As they rip open, splintering Ash's reinforcements. Wind sweeps in through the place as the curtains flutter wildly. Through the window is a sweeping fog. Ash runs through this room and into the main room. He moves to the window and looks out. Wind blowing on his face from outside. stark wooden cross marks Linda's lonely grave. The tiny figure of Ash can be seen looking off toward this hill. In the foreground is a crude burial cross and a mound of earth. The earth begins to crack and splinter. The wooden cross caves in and is swallowed as the headless corpse of Linda pulls itself to its feet. The sweeps through the night air. His eyes, illuminated by a shaft of light, widen in amazement and horror as... The fills the sound track, and the rotting corpse that was Linda begins to dance, bending and swaying as she sweeps gracefully through the evening fog. waltz of the dead. The style of dance begins to change. It becomes more primitive. The music changes to a more primal beat. The dance becomes sexually oriented. Erotic, with sharp pelvic thrusts and gyrating hip motions. Lost in the horrific beauty, he turns his head to a rumbling sound. Linda's rolls across the ground and up the hillside graveyard. As it leaps through the air and gracefully situates itself atop Linda's neck, she begins to spin, yet her head remains in place, never taking her eyes from Ash. With a sensual twirl and leap, she disappears into the evening mists. His eyes dart about, trying to catch another glimpse of Linda through the fog. Linda swings sharply into frame, completing the spin of her dance immediately in front of Ash as the music abruptly halts. Linda extends her dead arms towards Ash. He screams as... Linda's head rolls off of her neck and tumbles through space. As it tumbles through a void of blackness, falling. As he screams himself awake. to reveal him sitting in the rocking chair. Ash halts his scream, getting control of himself. He looks to the window that had blown open. Still boarded as though it had never been opened. Reassuring himself. That's all. Just a crummy dr- Linda's decapitated head falls into frame and lands in Ash's hands. It opens its eyes and looks to Ash. Hello lover, came from the other side of your dream to dance with you. four foot long blackened tongue emerges from her mouth like a lashing serpent. The tongue enters Ash's frame and forces itself into Ash's mouth. Screaming as he clutches at the head of his former love. The tongue instantly retracts inside her head. As it bites deeply into Ash's right hand, drawing blood. Ash stands and rushes across the room screaming, as he tries to rid himself of the head. As Ash staggers painfully around the side of the cabin and towards the work shed; Linda's head still clamped to his hand. The door to the place is kicked open, revealing Ash and Linda's head on the end of his hand. It is a room full of sawdust, chains and power tools. Old bones hang from the walls. As he places Linda's head within the vice and tightens it around her, then withdraws his hand. Even now we have your darling Linda's soul! She suffers in torment! As it rips away an old tarp revealing the chalk outline of where a chainsaw once was. Confused. Wondering what has happened to the chainsaw. Behind him, the door to the shed bursts open and in comes the flailing, headless, body of Linda, charging at Ash with the chainsaw buzzing high above her head. Ash is screaming. Ash grabs a large crowbar and swings it toward the approaching blade. The crowbar hits the bottom of the blade with a shower of sparks, sending the buzzing saw flipping backward. The blade of the chainsaw swings upward and arcs back into headless Linda, imbedding itself in her neck. She goes nuts as the chainsaw bites its way into her chest cavity. She spins wildly about the room knocking into shelves as she tries to pull the blade free. She slams against the wall of the shed, and slumps to the floor, the chainsaw still buzzing. As he is splattered with black bile. He reaches down. As Ash dislodges the spinning chainsaw from her. As he swings the chainsaw around and poises it above Linda's head. From the chainsaw, fumes of blue amoke. Ash turns to the head and falters. She is no longer possessed. She looks as she did earlier in the film. vision of beAuty. She is again Linda, the woman Ash loved. Tears roll down from her eyes. Please Ash, help me. love you, please don't hurt me. Trying to fight his feelings, he knows what he must do. He pumps the throttle on the saw. Pleading with him. You promised me we'd always be together. You swore to me! Agonized. Once again fully possessed, and speaking in the voice of the demon. Her eyes again white, her flesh, rotten. She opens her mouth and emits a jet stream of bile. As he's drenched in the face. Linda begins to laugh at him in a wild, high pitched squeal. He gains control of himself and steadies the saw. Eat chainsaw. He brings down the spinning blade. And moves past the and towards the head. We are left looking at the wall of the work shed upon which we see the stark shadow of the ghastly deed. We hear the sound of spinning steel meeting bone and the screams of a demon. As it is splattered with blood. Ash stumbles back into frame and falls against the wall, now lit in crimson. He looks at the off screen carnage in terror. He begins to shake as though in shock. He trembles as he looks down at his hands; they are covered in Linda's blood. He wipes his hands on his pants and shirt, trying to rid himself of it, but only succeeds in painting himself with the stuff. Ash screams a wild scream of fear and despair. It echoes off into the night. Ash in a confused state as he staggers from the work shed and towards the cabin. Again clutching the chainsaw. Ash enters through the doorway. He pushes the door shut behind him and halts. We hear a creaking sound. It is coming from the main room of the cabin. He moves in the direction of the sound. Curtains flutter on the partially boarded windows of the hall. Ash moves slowly past them and towards the main room ahead. The gentle creaking sound grows louder. Ash tosses down the saw and picks up the gun. Ash enters from the hallway and turns his head to the sound. It rocks back and forth with a definitive motion, halting for a moment at it's pints furthest forward and backward, as if some invisible thing was sitting there and rocking. He slowly approaches the chair, scared shitless. The chair rocks in and out of frame in the foreground as Ash takes halting steps towards it. Ash gathers his courage and reaches out his hand to halt the rocking motion. Slowly his hand approaches the chair. Just as his hand goes to touch it, the chair abruptly halts, on its own accord. In a confused state as he backs away from the chair and into the wall. He turns and comes face to face with himself in a hanging framed mirror. He clutches at his face, trying to reassure himself of his sanity. I'm fine... I'm fine... Ash's reflection becomes an independent entity. It reaches out of the mirror and grabs ahold of Ash by his throat. The reflection looks like a Mr. Hyde version of Ash. Sweating and nasty looking. The reflection pulls Ash close and speaks to him in an intimate whisper. don't think we're "fine". We're losing it... starting to slip. We just cut up our girlfriend with a chainsaw. Does that sound fine? The reflection tightens its hold on Ash's throat and begins to strangle him. Two hands in the bottom of frame, throttling him. races back to reveal Ash's own hands on his throat. There is no sign of Ash's evil reflection. Ash has been strangling himself. He realizes this the same moment we do. He quickly pulls his hands away, looks at them incredulously, then to the mirror. His reflection is as it should be. He looks back down to his hands. The bite marks that Linda's teeth have left in the hand stand out sharply. The wound suddenly blackens and spiderwebs it's infection across the entire surface of the hand. The hand quivers and shakes, now out of Ash's control. The hand has taken a whitish cast. It's veins throb and pulsate. It is possessed by the evil force. The hand's fingernails grow inches. The wound oozes black fluid. Ash is repulsed. Ash's demon hand makes a lunge at his face which is countered by his good hand. He slams the hand to the cabin floor. He screams to the air: You bastards. Give me back my hand. Wind and fog swirl about the place. Ash's is heard above the Give me back my hand!! Ash rushes into the kitchen and places his hand in the sink. He turns on the faucet. Cool water runs over Ash's burned hand. Ash rests his head on the kitchen counter and mumbles reassurances to himself. Can't... can't be happening. As the water pours over it. It grabs a plate sitting in the dishwater and reaches up silently out of the sink. The plate is shattered over Ash's head. The hand grabs Ash's hair and mercilessly slams his head down upon the kitchen counter again and again. Ash punches himself in the face and is sent reeling backwards. He smashes into a cupboard where dishes and plates fall upon him. The hand picks up plates and begins breaking them over Ash's head. Then a bottle. Ash is knocked unconscious. The hand continues breaking objects over his head. Ash lies unmoving, but still alive. The hand stops as though it senses something. The to a large meat cleaver which lies upon the wooden floor. The hand as it independently crawls towards the meat cleaver. The hand is stopped when it runs out of arm, now anchored by Ash's unconscious body. It digs its nails deep into the floorboards and begins to pull... ... as he is pulled along the kitchen floor. As it pulls Ash's unconscious body along after it. The hand clutches the meat cleaver when a large knife comes slicing through the demon hand, pinning it to the floorboards. pulls over to reveal a revived Ash. Who's laughing now? He reaches over with his good hand and pulls a fire engine red chainsaw down from the shelf. He holds the body of the machine between his legs and, with his good hand, pulls the starter cord. The to life. The to Ash's sweating face. Who's laughing now!? He lowers the spinning blade of the chainsaw down out of frame and toward the evil hand. Blood flies up into frame. We hear the of the as it slices through bone and then falls silent. The cranes down as Annie's car approaches from the distance. It pulls to a halt. Ed and Annie step from the car. red tow truck with its orange lights flashing is parked there. Painted on it's side is "Jake's Gas Go." Jake, a toothless, backwoods, greasemonkey is setting up flares and wooden roadblocks. Annie and Ed approach. Excuse me. This the road to the Knowby's cabin? Thas' right. But you ain't goin' there. And why not? As he reaches in his truck to pull on the headlights. As they snap on. All stand in the bright glare of the lights as the fog swirls about them. Annie and Ed gape in frightened wonder at what they see. The piercing beams of light illuminate twisted remnants of the destroyed bridge that leads to the cabin. road sign, similar to the one on the other side of the bridge reads: "Dangerous Bridge - Two Ton Weight Limit". Frightened as they view the wreckage. What happened? Lady, ain't never seen nothin' like it. Terrific. Now what? There must be another way in. Another road or something. Sure ain't no, road. pans over to reveal a brassy southern spitfire of a woman, Bobby Joe. Hell you wanna go there for, anyway? Bobby Joe takes a pinch of chewing tobacco and stuffs it into her mouth. She doesn't like Annie and her fancy clothes. She stares at Annie like a cat. Annie steps forward. She eyes Bobby Joe. None of your business. He feigns surprise and pleasantness. Hey! just remembered... Yeah, that's right... There is a trail. You could follow Bobby Joe and me. That sounds all right. But, it'll cost ya. How much? Forty Fi... Jake looks up suddenly at Bobby Joe who gives a sharp shake of her head. Hundred bucks. Tell you what. You take my bags you got a deal. He glances through the window of Annie's car. The tiny case containing the missing pages of the Book of the Dead, and a small handbag. Looking back to Annie, a big smile on his near toothless face. Sure! hiking trail winds through the woods. Bobby Joe leads the way with flashlight in hand. She pockets some bills. She is followed by Annie and Ed who carry the glass case containing the missing pages and the handbag. grunting and sweating Jake brings up the rear, the large steamer trunk on his back. He is cursing under his breath. Jesus Christ! thought she was talkin' 'bout them two goddamn little pieces! The wind rushes fog about the place with a fury. large moon hangs in the night sky. No longer attached to Ash's arm, it still writhes about beneath Ash's foot which pins it to the floor. As he grabs the steel wastebasket, dumps out the trash lowers it quickly over the trapping the hand within. With a note of finality, Ash slams down a pile of books atop the overturned wastecan, to anchor it. The top book's title reads "Farewell to Arms". Ash raises a red hot fireplace shovel that had been resting upon the coals. He grits his teeth. Just out of frame, Ash thrusts the glowing shovel against the stump to cauterize the wound. Red steam hisses up into frame as Ash screams. He tosses aside the shovel and douses his smoldering stump into a vase of fresh flowers. Unspooling a roll of duct tape. He tapes the tablecloth into a makeshift bandage about his wrist. Behind him, the wastebasket silently slides across the floor. He turns to see. Upon its side. The Evil Hand is gone. He turns to a "pitter patter" sound. It scampers across the floorboards headed for a hole in the wall. Same action as above but covered now through animation. Low angle tracking shot approaching the hole in the wall. He raises the shotgun and The floor next to the hand explodes. The hand leaps into the hole as a section of wall next to it Blam! Ash quickly reloads both chambers of the gun. He tracks the of the as the hand scampers through the sapace behind the wall like a rat. The blasted hole at the bottom of the wall. The hand appears, still unhurt, waving and taunting at Ash. As it taunts it inadvertently sidesteps into a rusting mousetrap. It springs shut upon the hand. It screams furiously and shakes violently in an effort to get free the from trap. Throws back his head in a gruff bark of laughter. Ha! The hand throws the trap from itself and raises its middle finger to flipping him the bird. He raises the gun, revealing his face as the with his movement. Pointed directly at the hand. But the hand dodges away from the hole, disappearing again behind the wall. The gun continues to track the evil hand's progress through its pitter patter sound. The pitter patter ebbs and then peaks in volume. Both triggers are squeezed. 2nd and 3rd hole are blown in the wall. All is silent. As he lowers the smoking gun. Wondering if he has hit the hand or not. All is silent for a moment, and then a slight trickle of blood comes dripping from the hole and down the side of the wall. For the first time feeling victorious. As Ash continues to stare at the hole, his expression changes to one of perplexity. The trickle of blood has increased to a steady flow, then, even this volume of blood multiplies. It is forced out of the wall with a greater and greater pressure until blood pours from the wall like a fire hose. Horrified, he spins his glance to the sound of more gushing liquid. He is hit in the face with a geyser of deep red blood. The 2nd and 3rd holes in wall also begin to spew blood in a geyser. The over to the 4th of the holes. This, too, is an eruption of blood. The blood changes in color to a black fluid, then yellow, then turquoise. Screaming as he looks down at his wrist. to it. The severed wrist begins dribbling blood. Then in a burst, it too, erupts in a hellish fire hose. It spouts blood under such great pressure that is driven against the walls of the cabin because of it. We follow him as he slams from one wall into another. In the midst of his scream, drowning in the blood, it all suddenly stops. The cabin is again deadly quiet. soaked in blood and shivering, waits. For what, he's not sure. As he slowly backs away from the walls and sits upon the three legged chair. It shatters beneath him, dumping him on his butt. turns sharply to the low sound. The mounted moose head upon the wall. It is in a different position. It turns sharply towards and emits a hideous cackle. He pulls back in fear, then turns to the sound of more laughter. The desk lamp on its steel swivel rises and falls in synchronization with its wheezing laughter. Ah ha ha ha ha. Ahhhh ha ha ha ha! Terrified, he turns to more laughter. line of 12 old books upon the shelf flap open and closed violently as they emit a chorus of sharp laughs. Ash turns. Other books upon the floor laugh. He turns sharply toward us and breaks into an uproariously frightening bout of laughter. The wooden door behind Ash comes to life. It stretches out as though it were elastic with each of its own low and terrible laughs. Ash and everything in it are having the time of their lives. Ash leads the bunch laughing harder and harder. The room's laughter suddenly stops. Ash instantly terrified, grabs up the shotgun and fires into the door. Blam! Blam! to the front door. Two holes are blown into the door. We hear a short shrill scream and then all is quiet. Ash opens the front door. It slowly swings inward with a creak revealing the empty night. Ash approaches the front porch as Jake enters sharply into his frame. Jake tackles Ash. As it slides across the floor. Ed enters and holds Ash down as Jake slugs him twice. Ash's fist comes up into frame catching Jake on the jaw. Jake pulls back his fist and rockets a piledriver blow to Ash's face, knocking him senseless. Annie and Bobby Joe enter. Annie is taking off Bobby Joe's coat. Bobby Joe is wounded from the shotgun blast. She holds her shoulder where the shell has grazed her. You gonna be alright, honey? don't know. You just sit still fer a minute. As Jake gives Ash a swift kick in the ribs. Ash moans. Jake turns to Ed, who is badly shaken. You know this son of a bitch? No. We thought her - Annie steps forward. Oh my God. Where are my parents? Annie sets down the glass case containing the pages of the Book of the Dead. As she looks down to the floor. As it lies in a pool of blood. Annie runs to Ash's semi-conscious body, grabs his shirt and violently shakes him. What the hell did you do to them? Ed pulls Annie off of Ash. She drops Ash's moaning head to the floor and backs away from him, sobbing. Nursing his sore knuckles, he points with his elbow to the trap door that leads to the cellar. We'll throw him in there. Jake picks up Ash's body and drags him quickly to the trap door. Half conscious, Ash feebly struggles with Jake. Crazy buck's gone blood simple. As he approaches the trap door almost upside down. Ed pries it open. In a dazed state as he is carried to the trap door. Wait... made... a mistake... Damn right, you flat mouthed son of a bitch. Jake kicks Ash down into the open trap door. Looking up at the open trap door as Ash's body falls through frame. As it slams into the wooden step. His feet tumble over him as he begins to fall down the staircase. As he tumbles head over heels down the wooden steps. Racing down the steps. As he slams to the dirt floor of the cellar. Hard. He moans. Jake, Ed and Bobby Joe. hope you rot down there! Ash begins to realize where he is. Growing terror on his battered face. No. Jake swings the trap door shut with a clanging of chains. The shaft of light from above disappears and he is encased in the darkness of the cellar. From above he hears the threading of chains through eyeloops. Jake has just laid Bobby Joe down upon the couch. He dresses her wound with a towel. Annie tosses down her coat on the chair at the writing desk. She spots the tape recorder and Kandarian Dagger. She moves to them. These are my father's things. She turns on the tape recorder. High pitched feedback and the professor's screams come from the speaker. (Voice on Tape) Last night Henrietta tried to kill me. Listen! (Voice on tape) My father's voice. know now, that my wife has become host to a kandarian demon. As they turn their heads to the sound of: Still playing, the tapes wind as we hear the wowing and fluttering voice of Raymond Knowby. (Voice on tape) cannot bring myself to dismember my wife, yet know that must, to halt the evil that lives within her. Horrified. No. As he lays in the center of the cellar's earth floor. He strains his ears to listen to the tape playing in the room above. (Voice on tape) It is October 1, 4:33 p.m. Henrietta is dead. could not bring myself to dismember her corpse. But buried her. As he listens intently to the tape playing in the room above. on the winding tape. (Voice on tape) . . . buried her . . . in the cellar. Growing horror on his face as he realizes where he is. (Voice on tape) God help me, buried her in the earthen floor of the fruit cellar! Ash's legs in the foreground. Suddenly from the earthen floor of the fruit cellar a half-rotten human head juts up! Just the eyes are above the surface of the dirt. They dart about wildly and halt upon Ash. Worms crawl from the rotted forehead. He screams. Henrietta's arm rips through the earth and grabs Ash's leg as he tries to back away. The corpse that was Henrietta pulls itself from the grave and emits a wail. She turns her twisted body to face Ash. Moths fly about her in a flurry. Someone's in my fruit cellar! Someone with a fresh soul! All eyes on the trap door. Somebody's down there with him. No. Can't be. He runs up the steps to the trap door and begins pounding furiously upon it. Let me out! Let me out!!! Henrietta lets out a terrible laugh and approaches the wooden staircase. All eyes are on the banging trap door. wild screams are coming from beneath. They look at one another, not sure of what to do. Jake holds the ring of keys. Let him out. It's a trick. know it. At the top of the steps, pounding on the trap door, screaming to be let out. the at the bottom of the steps. flutter of moths about her. Henrietta begins to climb the steps. Two at a time. Come to me. Come to sweet Henrietta. As he tries one key after another. As they are forced into the lock. Sweating at the top of the steps, watching as Henrietta approaches. No. Extending her rotted and worm infested arm toward him. Yesssssss. You and We shall spend eternity together. Marie's shadow envelops him. He is petrified. But first I'll swallow your soul ! With a sharp recoil, then spring, Henrietta makes a lunge at Ash. Her face contorting, her teeth lengthening, her mouth opening impossibly wide as though she were going to swallow his head, and all as she lunges forward. She changes to "Pee Wee" head. Plate for previous scene. He screams as a set of bloody hands grab his face. But they are not Henrietta's. He is pulled upward to the main room of the cabin. It is Jake who pulls Ash to safety. Jake finishes pulling Ash up from the trapdoor and onto the floor of the main room. The horrible face of Pee-Wee head Henrietta pops from the cellar! at the sight of the beast. For God's sake! That's my mother! One of Henrietta's rotted hands reach up from the cellar grabbing Jake. As he moves to help Jake, Henrietta swats at his jaw, knocking him backward into a picture frame. He shatters it with his head and slumps to the floor. As he moves toward the trapdoor. Ash's foot kicks the trapdoor shut and crushes Henrietta's Pee-wee head between the door and the floorboards. Ash leaps down upon the trapdoor, slamming it to pin Pee-Wee head sideways. The pressure sends her left eyeball popping from her head, like a cork from a champagne bottle. Henrietta's eyeball and trailing optic nerve - mounted on glass - panning with the eyeball as it sails through space. As the eyeball is shot into her screaming mouth. She begins to gag on it. Jake kicks Marie's Pee-Wee head in the face, sending her back down into the cellar. The trap door shuts. Ash leaps atop it. The sound of Henrietta falling down the cellar steps is heard along with the beast's wild ravings. Ash quickly threads the chains through the eyeloops. He snaps the lock shut. Ash is shaking. Jake slowly moves down into his frame. He is completely terrified. The tape recorder continues to play. (Voice on tape) fear that whatever have resurrected from this book, is sure to come calling for me. The takes the of the Evil Force as it glides through the woods. Over a stump, around the Oak trees, through a patch of fog, as the cabin comes into view. Ash turns to the group, Annie is placing her wet bandana atop Ed's forehead. There's something out there. That... witch in the cellar is only part of it. It lives out in those woods. In the Dark. Something that's come back from the dead. Interrupting Ash. Jake, let's beat it the hell out o'here, right now. gotta get out! Now Bobby, you ain't in no condition. Nobody goes out that door. Not till daylight. They freeze in their tracks as they hear a gentle voice which sings a melancholy tune. Annie turns her head to the sound and the reveal whose head juts in the space between the floorboards and the trap door. She is no longer possessed. She looks as she did earlier in the film. She is singing a gentle song to Annie. Remember that song Annie? used to sing it to you when you were a baby. Uncertain of what to do, but wanting to believe. Let me out, dear. It's so cold and dark in here. Mother? Unlock these chains. Quickly. Annie starts to follow the instructions, but Ash halts her gently. He shakes his head. Annie snaps out of it. She shakes her head and looks to the cellar. No. No. don't know what you are but you're not my mother. Annie begins to cry. Henrietta is crying also. How can you say that to me Annie? No! You were born September 2nd, 1962. remember it well because it was snowing. So strange that it would be snowing in September. Confused and tearful, she screams to the others in the room. That thing in the cellar is not my mother! Ed stands sharply into her frame. His eyes bone white, his skin, the pale color of the dead. His mouth has grown over large. His lips are black. He is possessed. He shrieks. Annie screams and jumps back out of frame. He flies up into the air and writhes about as if he were a human marionette. He lets out a demonic moan and then begins to laugh. As they clutch in fear at one another. As they look on in horror. Ash steps in front of Annie as she gapes at this monstrosity that was Ed. As he floats about the room. His laughter suddenly stops and a second demonic voice comes from his body. It is female, and wailing in lament. Watching in horror. The body of Ed turns sharply toward the group, not really seeing. (In the voice of #1) We are the things that were. (In the voice of #2) And shall be again! (In the voice of #1) Spirits of the book. (In the voice of #2) We want what is yours! As he floats about, his head dips and swoons. (In the voice of #1) Dead by dawn! (In the voice of #2) Dead by dawn! Sticking her gnarled head from the cellar. Dead by dawn! Dead by dawn! Ed floating, turns his head sharply to Bobby Joe. The Possessed body of Ed rushes through the air towards her. He opens his mouth wide open. As he quickly rushes upon a screaming Bobby Joe. He bites into Bobby Joe's head. With a single motion he rips out the bulk of the hair from her head with a terrible Stands up into frame with a clump of Bobby Joe's hair in his mouth and swallows it. Bobby Joe collapses to the ground. As she calls from the cellar. Free me! Unlock these chains! He turns to the trap door and moves toward it. Both horrified. Ash retreats. Annie is shocked as she watches Ash back into the middle bedroom and disappear. Where are you going?! You filthy Possessed Ed moves toward the trap door. Jake comes up quickly behind Ed to grab his shoulder. As Jake's hand reaches for the shoulder of possessed Ed. The head of possessed Ed spins around on its neck so that it faces Jake. (In the voice of a woman) We see you! Screaming as Ed's hand enters frame, and snags Jake's face. He tosses Jake upward. As he tosses Jake upward. Jake flies upward towards the ceiling of the cabin. prop light bulb "Shining" in its fixture. Jake's head comes flying up into frame, shattering it, and slamming into the wood ceiling and then falling back down again. As Jake slams back down to the floor of the cabin. As he reappears in the doorway of the room. Now he clutches an axe in his single hand. As he grabs the chains that secure the trap door ready to rip them loose. He turns his head to see: Ash approaches with the axe. Ash exits the frame and we are left with Annie and the stark shadow of possessed Ed which is cast upon the wall behind her. We watch as the shadow of Ash with the axe, slices through the top portion of possessed Ed's head. Annie screams as she is splattered with green bile. Missing Ed's right hand portion of his head. His brain, shriveled like the inside of a pumpkin. Ash stands before us, his axe dripping green bile. Ed's arms flail wildly on either side of the camera, groping at the air. He slowly falls over and slams to the floor. Ed's body falls to the floor. It lays quiet for a moment and then begins to writhe and scream in its demonic death throes. Finally, he is silent. Ash turns to her. Start up that saw and hand it here! We're gonna cut him up. Annie looks to the chainsaw and then to the unmoving body of Ed. She is repulsed at the thought. No. Possessed Ed stands up quickly into frame! The evil force having re-animated his lifeless body. As a hand grabs Ash's throat. Possessed Ed exits frame, revealing it to be Ash's evil hand on his own throat. It lifts him into the air. As they are lifted off the floor. He pries the evil hand from his throat and falls. As he slams to the floor the evil hand scurries away in the Annie is screaming in horror. Possessed Ed backhands her across the face. Annie slams into a desk shattering it to splinters of wood. She falls to the floor. As he grabs the axe. As he stands sharply into frame. His mouth wide open and screaming. Terrified, as he moves toward possessed Ed with the axe. Ash brings the axe down upon Ed's shoulder, knocking him to the floor. swings the axe again and again. Different colors of bile and blood fly up into frame as Ash chops. Screaming at the sight. His axe blade rises and falls as black demon blood flies up into frame. Ed's missing portion of his head sits upon the floor. His eye in extreme in the foreground. It looks wildly about into the In the background, we watch Ash bring down the axe until all is silent. Jake slowly stands into the empty frame. He is in shock from what he has just seen. Annie slowly rises into frame - shaking her head in a silent "No." Ash slowly rises into frame, terrified. They are looking down at the out-of-frame remains of possessed Ed. The moon has grown larger. Fog billows past the cabin. Jake sprays a can of air freshener about the room. He holds his nose. Ash tosses a bloodied sheet, containing the remains of possessed Ed to the floor. It lands with a sickening thud. Wiping his face with a rag, Ash moves off in disgust. We hold on the bundled sheet as the trap door next to it silently opens. Henrietta's rotted hand emerges, unnoticed by the others in the room. Jake, can't take no more of this. Henrietta's rotted hand pulls the bundle of body parts silently down into the cellar and quietly closes the trap. Jake moves to the window and looks out. That's funny. What? That trail we came in here on... well, it just ain't there no more. Like the woods jus' swallowed it. The room goes quiet. The sound of the wind outside the cabin has died. Jake and Bobby Joe cock their heads to this new silence. She looks about the room, getting scared. It's so quiet. Ash stands slowly into frame. He knows that it can't be good. As they raise their heads to a distant pounding sound. It grows louder. What the hell is it? Maybe something... Something trying to force its way into our world. The cabin Bang! Bobby Joe runs to Jake's arms. He clutches her tightly. Annie runs to Ash. He holds her. The pounding sounds halt. Again they are left in silence. Annie awkwardly disengages herself from Ash. They hear a sound coming from the middle bedroom. It's in there. It is opened a crack. We'll all go in together. Hell no, you're the curious one. He moves toward the door. I'll go with you. Ash nods to Annie in a show of thanks. He grabs the axe, and pushes open the door to the middle bedroom. Annie follows with the flickering oil lantern. The door to the main room creaks open. Ash and Annie cautiously enter. They look about the place. As the the shadowed corners of the room. An eerie whistling wind is heard. It has an other worldly sound, very far off. Bobby Joe and Jake enter the room, drawn by the sound. She looks about, frightened. Jake takes Bobby Joe's hand. Bobby Joe smiles, frightened. Waiting. As the eerie whistling sound grows louder. It is followed by the angry sound of something moving violently about the room. shattering of glass. The group is hit with a tremendous blast of air. They shiver from the cold. The wind in the room suddenly stops. He blows out his breath and watches it vaporize. The screaming face of Raymond Knowby emerges from the wall. life like spirit made of swirling smoke and mist. Annie. They turn to the ghost in fear. Awestruck. Bobby Joe crosses herself. Holy Mother O'Mercy. There is a dark spirit here that wants to destroy you. Your salvation lies in the pages from the Book of the Dead. The ghost of Raymond points to Annie's glass case. to it. Inside are the pages from the Book. Listening. Recite the passages. Dispel the evil. Save my soul... And your own lives. The ghost of Raymond screams and is gone. Whoosh! Again they are hit with a blast of air. Jake, you squeezing my hand too tight. ain't got your hand, baby. Then who...? Bobby Joe raises her hand into frame, to reveal Ash's Evil Hand clutched in hers. Bobby Joe goes nuts, screaming and flailing about trying to throw the hand from her. She slams into the lantern, knocking it out. We lose them in the darkness. Somebody get the light! The sound of chairs being pushed over. The sound of a door opening and closing. As he lights the lantern illuminating the room. over to reveal only Jake and Annie. Looking about. Hey. Bobby Joe's gone! Screaming, Bobby Joe makes a mad dash away from the cabin. It diminishes in size behind her, she has had enough of it. As she races through the woods. She runs deep into the woods, still looking behind her as she slams into a twisted oak tree that stops her flat. An angry face appears on the surface of the tree. Its gnarled bark folds open to reveal very human like oversized eyes. large fold in its bark opens to form a gaping mouth dripping tree sap saliva. Screaming as she backs away from this living tree as a flurry of snake like vines pick themselves up off of the ground and come to life about her. Two living vines wind their way toward her legs and coil around her ankles tightly. She lets out a short shrill scream, as her shirt is torn away from her. Living vines wind around Bobby Joe's torso and breasts in a furious wrapping motion. living vine wraps around her throat. Tiny vines wrap around Bobby Joe's hand and fingers. Bobby Joe, wrapped in vines, is reeled backwards and ripped through a wall of branches. At a great speed, Bobby Joe is pulled away from the cabin and towards the forest by the vines. As the vines rocket her on a speeding joyride along the forest floor. As she drags along the forest flctor, the smaller vines force their way into Bobby Joe's nose and mouth and then under the first layer of her facial skin. She is pulled along the ground and down into a foxhole (dummy). Camera continues tracking along her original trajectory until we come to the second foxhole where she emerges, now covered in mud, and screaming. Bobby Joe rips through spikes extending from a log and is dragged through two mud puddles. The vines wisk her away. She hits a swamp with a giant splash, but even this does not stop her. She glides across the surface of the swamp with a great roostertail spray of water, as if she were on water skis. She hits the other side of the swamp and is rocketed out of the water and across the forest floor. Bobby Joe comes roaring towards us, screaming. She rips past. From Bobby Joe appears and goes racing into the distance. Darting in and around trees, a major stump is coming right for her. Bobby Joe's legs spread wide. The tree stump races closer. Bobby Joe . . . her last. Girl meets stump. We hear the And watch as a geyser of blood floods up into the night sky. It falls away from the and shatters on the table beneath us. As their hands scramble at removing the pages from the bits of broken glass. Jake is looking out the boarded window of the cabin, searching for some sign of Bobby Joe. All is silent as fog rushes in and around the woods. Where the hell is she? Jake turns to Ash. We gotta go out there and find her! If she went out in those woods, she's not coming back. Jake turns back to the window. Ash turns to Annie. He glances down at the pages that Annie is looking over. One of the pages is a clear pictorial of Ash as the "Hero from the Sky." Ash shudders. What is it? Felt like someone just walked over my grave. It's that picture. Annie looks to it. In 1300 This was the "Hero from the Sky," who was prophesized to destroy this Evil. He didn't do a very good job. What about the passages? As she quickly gives the pages a cursory glance. Here it is. Two passages. For the first time, she smiles at Ash. We've got it! Finally seeing his salvation, his face shows hope. Annie reads through the pages. Recitation of the first passage will make this "Dark Spirit" manifest itself in the flesh. Why the hell would we want to do that? Annie thumbs through one or two of the other pages. Recitation of the second passage creates a kind of rift in time and space, and the physical manifestation of this spirit can be forced back through this rift... to an earlier time and place. At least that's the best translation can .... Annie and Ash look up to the source of the sound. He has just snapped a shell into the firing chamber of the shotgun. He points it at Ash and Annie. I'm runnin' the show now. Standing together, confused. We're goin' outside into those woods to look for Bobby Joe, an' once we find her, we're gettin' the hell outta here. If you want to look for her, go ahead. You two comin' with me. ain't goin' out there alone. You'll kill us all. She's dead by now. With these pages we can... Jake grabs the pages from Annie's hand. Those pages don't mean shit. Jake kicks the pages down into the cellar. Ash and Annie look on in horror. 'Sides. Now you ain't got no, choice. Jake pushes at Ash with the barrel of the shotgun. Now move! Ash hesitates. Move you son of a bitch! Ash, Annie and Jake exit the cabin. Ash, Annie and Jake walk towards the woods. In the is Ash. He looks off past the in fear. As he approaches a line of trees whose branches bend and sway with a threatening motion. No trail. Which way do you intend to go? Looking confused and frightened. He calls out desperately. Bobby Joe! As it glides through the woods. We hear a muted shout from Jake. Bobby Joe, where are you girl? And the of the force suddenly swings about to reveal Jake, Ash, and Annie not to far away. As he moves deeper into the woods. As she searches the woods with her eyes in fear. As scared as the rest of them, but driven to find Bobby Joe. As it approaches the group. Bobby Joe! Bobby Joe! Ash approaches Jake. You'll get us all killed. Shaddup! Jake slams Ash across the face with the stock of the shotgun. Ash plummets to the ground. Annie screams! She goes after Jake. Jake slugs her and she falls to the ground. It draws closer. Raging to the night! Bobby Joe! of Evil Force racing up to the group. Jake halts his screaming. He listens in the silence as possessed Ash juts up into the frame! His eyes are bone white, his flesh, the pale color of the dead. His lips, black. He bellows to the night! She screams and stumbles backwards, towards the cabin. Possessed Ash lifts Jake up above his head and throws him into a large tree. It explodes in a blast of sawdust as the dummy slams into it. Annie dashes inside and turns to look out the open doorway. All is quiet outside, no sign of Possessed Ash or Jake, and then Possessed Ash is there, emerging from the darkness suddenly. He raises his finger and points to Annie. He speaks in the low garbled voice of a demon: She rushes to the door, hoping to get there before Possessed Ash. She slams the front door shut just in time. She picks up the Kandarian Dagger. - sound coming from somewhere in the rear of the cabin. She turns toward the door to the hallway. It is closed. She moves to investigate the sound. As she approaches the rear door to the hall and slowly opens it. As the door to the hallway is pulled open, revealing ... only the empty hallway. She breathes a sigh of relief. As she moves down the hall. It is dark. Curtains flutter on the boarded windows. As she moves towards the rear of the cabin. We approach the window and look out into the night. Fog billows through the trees, and in the distance the monster that is Ash emerges. He heads toward the cabin and disappears in a bank of fog. Annie is frightened. She spins her head to a sound. Creak! The doorknob is turning. Something is trying to get in. She forces her back to the wall. She tenses with the dagger, ready to slay whatever should enter. She waits. Gripped tightly in Annie's sweating hands. Rattling violently now. And suddenly it opens. As they swing the dagger. As the dagger imbeds in the intruder's chest. quickly to reveal a gasping Jake. Jake falls to the ground, half in and out of the doorway. He is still alive. As she backs away in horror, clutching at her head. No! She backs to a partially boarded window. Possessed Ash juts up into frame in the window behind her. Annie screams and runs toward the open back door. Possessed Ash spots the open door through the window and begins to move around the side of the house. As she goes to slam the door. As he lies moaning in the doorway, the door slams upon him. As she reaches down and pulls Jake's body out of the way. As he moves around the side of the cabin, tearing apart a trellis that stands in his path, and three hanging flowerpots as he approaches the open door. Again she tries to slam the door. Which lies in the door's path, preventing it from closing. As he approaches the back door. He grabs the screen door and tears it loose with a single motion. As she pulls Jake's ankle from the door and slams it. All is again silent. Annie kneels down next to a moaning Jake, driving the dagger in a little deeper by accident. He cries out in pain. Get the axe. Kill it. Kill it. Jake moans and dies. As she turns her head to the sound of breaking glass. As she cautiously approaches the main room. As she moves towards the main room. Annie enters the room. She shudders from the cold. with her glance to broken glass upon the floor, and over to reveal the bashed out window and the curtains fluttering in the wind. Petrified. Looking about. Knowing that the monster Ash may be lurking close. As she moves about the main room, picking up the axe. With her back toward us she doesn't notice Ash's hand appear suddenly in the foreground atop the writing desk. She turns suddenly towards camera. Ash's evil hand sits upon the table. It scampers off. Annie turns and comes face to face with Possessed Ash! He bellows at her and grabs her as she shrieks bloody murder! He picks her up and swings her across the room, into the wall. She slumps to the floor unconscious. As he lumbers toward her. As he moves closer to her unmoving body. glitter of light on the floor, next to her, catches his eye. For the first time, calm, as he looks intently down at the floor. He kneels closer. The of Linda. The sight of the necklace strikes the human cord within him. He is confused, his evil self, battling for control of his spirit and body. He reaches to pick it up. As he slowly picks up the delicate silver necklace. He raises it to his face; I'll never take it off. And then it hits him. The emotion of love lost. It floods the monster that is He clutches the necklace tightly to his bestial chest. And as the Love/waltz theme sweeps up in volume on the sound track, the monster begins to cry. Ash raises his head and lets out a low, lamenting, and pitiful wail. man trapped in the shell of a beast, crying for the one he has lost. As he raises his head. Tears stream down from his eyes, washing away the caked on blood. His face begins to change. His skin loses its white pallor. His blackened, infected cuts disappear. The swollen and cracked surface of his face begins to heal. Ash's eyes change from white to brown. As the last tears roll down Ash's face, he is once again human. Ash looks up suddenly with a start. As he rolls out of the way a moment before the head of the axe buries itself in the wooden floor. Splinters fly. Rolls to his feet and stands. He ducks as Annie enters frame, charging him with axe, screaming. No. Annie swings the axe and again Ash ducks. The head of the axe slams into the plastered wall smashing right through. Ash grabs her tightly with his remaining hand. Listen to me! I'm all right now. That thing is gone. Ash pushes her away. Annie falls to the floor. She stands. Catching his wind for a moment. Then rolls to the side as the axe again comes at him! The head of the axe slices into the wall only a few inches from his head. As he grabs Annie by the face and forces her backwards. said was all right!! Annie is nearly choking. Okay. Ash releases her gently. She again looks to Ash, cautiously. Are you sure? You'll be the first to know. I'm fine. Yeah, but for how long? If we're going to beat this thing, we need those pages. As he turns to the trap door. Then let's head down into that cellar... It lies silently against the floor. rasping breath can be heard from below. He turns from the trap door to Annie. ...And carve ourselves a witch. Ash's hand flips open the latch on the shed door. The door is kicked open, revealing the silhouette of Ash and Annie as they stand in the doorway. Rats scurry for safety as the shaft of light from the door hits them. hand pulls on the cord, turning on the light. Ash's arm sweeping the chains and pieces of wood onto the floor. Is tossed down upon the workshed table. Is tossed down next to the first. Hold down a clamp as hand, creates screw sized holes in it with a battery powered drill. Attach the hoseclamps to a piece of red steel. Attach the red piece of steel to stump, via the clamps. Attach a type hook Around Ash's neck, just above his bicep. Slams down the chainsaw upon the table. It is missing its side panel. arm enters frame and we see that it is this missing side panel that has been clamped to his stump. The panel slides into the side of the chainsaw with a sharp As he bends the chainsaw to his chest. The shaped end of the starter cord falls neatly into the shaped hook that is strapped around Ash's neck. He looks up to Annie, the moment of truth. Hair tousled over her sweating face, returns his glance, expectant. Ash extends his chainsaw arm, pulling on the starter cord. The to life. With his free arm Ash raises the shotgun. He lowers the blade of the chainsaw down upon the barrel. Sparks fly as the saw cuts through it. The long barrel falls to the floor. Ash is left with a sawed off shotgun in one hand and a chainsaw strapped to his other arm. With a fancy style western flip to the gun Ash saddles the shotgun in a makeshift holster, strapped to his back. The into Ash's face. Groovy. In the distance, the tiny figures of Ash and Annie as they move from the workshed to the cabin. In the foreground is a large oak tree. gnarled human- like face can be made out on the surface of the tree. It is lit from beneath and slolwly brought up on a dimmer. horrible twisted tree face. It suddenly opens its mouth and breathes in a gust of air with a terrible wheezing sound, as though in great pain at being brought to life. It turns sharply towards the cabin. Second tree face, brought up on a dimmer, opens its mouth and loudly draws in air, also in agony. third tree's twisted face, two human eyes opened wide on its surface. It breathes, then barks a guttural sound. In the foreground is the base of a large oak tree. The cabin in the distance. rumbling is heard. Then suddenly the tree pulls one of its massive roots from the earth. The tree sets its root down a few feet closer to the cabin. An entire line of trees. All pull their roots free from the soil and take an awkward and lumbering step towards the cabin. Begins cutting through the wood of the trap door. Tensing with her axe, ready for the beast to spring. As it completes the second cut in the wood of the trap door. As he finishes the slicing job and kicks open the trap door. The broken bits of the trap door fall past the camera, as they cautiously peer down into the cellar. Looking down into the cellar. No sign of Henrietta. The bottom of the steps disappear into blackness. Those pages are down there somewhere. He kicks aside the broken trapdoor and slowly descends into the darkness. Ash arrives at the bottom of the steps. He looks about the dark corners of the cellar trying to find some sign of Henrietta or the pages. Panning the cobwebs and dark stone walls of the cellar. Half hidden in the shadows we see two of the missing pages. As he moves through the cellar and grabs the pages. He spots another page somewhat deeper into the cellar. fourth and fifth page lay upon the earthen floor, at the base of the cellar's rear door. Ash moves to pages and gathers them. Annie's voice calls down. Did you find her? She's playing hard to get... He pumps the throttle on the buzzing saw. ... rid of. Behind Ash, unseen by him, a shadow darts by. He hears a sound. It is coming from the door to the cellar's rear room. He reaches for the door and opens it. Revealing darkness beyond. Ash enters. Again he hears the slight sound, a gentle ticking. The ticking sound is coming from behind a hanging drape. He approaches the drape, reaches out his hand and pulls it back sharply. Revealing an old water heater, ticking and steaming. He breathes a sigh of relief as the half eaten skeleton torso of Ed falls atop him! Ash screams and steps suddenly away. Ed's skeletal carcass falls to the earthen floor still wrapped in the bloody sheet. Looking on in horror. (In a whisper) She got hungry. Ash turns from the skeleton and quickly gathers up the remaining pages from the Book of the Dead. Getting scared now, he backs into the cellar's front room. As he moves towards the steps. He tosses up the bundle of pages. Peering down into the cellar, she grabs the pages. She rushes over to the writing desk and begins translating. Getting scared now, decides to exit the cellar. He climbs the steps. As they climb. From behind the wooden steps, the horrible head of Henrietta appears. Her two rotting hands grab at Ash's ankles. He looks down with a scream. Come to me. Come to sweet Henrietta! Her face pulls back behind the cellar steps. Her hands pull ASH's feet in after her. As Ash falls, he slams his jaw down upon the bottom step. As the spinning blade jams into the step, stalling the engine. In an instant, his entire body is pulled beneath the steps. As she sits at the writing desk, reciting the first of the passages. Nos-feratos-allo-memnon-kanda! She puts aside the pages and glances up suddenly at the faint sounds of the struggle from the cellar. Ash's badly mauled body rips through the staircase with a great force. As he slams into the earth floor of the cellar. He moans, and looks towards the steps. As a cackling Henrietta appears where the bottom section of staircase used to stand. As she races from the writing desk to look down into the cellar. As she kneels down at the trapdoor, about to call down to Ash when the witchlike figure of Henrietta floats quickly up into the main room from the cellar. flurry of moths about her. Free! Free at last! As Annie attempts to move from the trap door. Henrietta is clutching at Annie's hair and laughing with a demonic malice, as she spins about the room in mid air. Ash's bloodied arm slings itself over the edge of the trapdoor. He pulls himself up into the main room. Henrietta turns sharply to Ash with a growl. He stands and jerks out his chainsaw arm sharply. The cord is pulled and the engine roars to life! As she leaps through the air toward Ash. Ash swings his buzzing chainsaw. As it grabs the body of the chainsaw, halting it in mid swing. As she keeps the buzzing chainsaw at bay with one hand, while her other grabs at Ash's throat, strangling him. As he is slammed through the window. Ash kicks her in the stomach. Henrietta is furious. She grits her teeth, concentrates, and her neck begins to grow. She begins to change to Pee Wee Head. on wall. As the pee wee Head transformation continues, Henrietta's neck grows, like a jack in the box. It extends a solid five feet upward, so that her head is now looking down upon Ash baring its teeth. Ash gapes in fear at this monstrosity that looms above him. Her neck undulating like a snake, she bites and snaps. I'll swallow your soul, swallow your soul! He reacts. Henrietta swoops at Ash as he keeps her at bay with the buzzing chainsaw. She opens her mouth impossibly wide, exposing those nasty rows of jagged shark like teeth. She dive bombs him. Plate for previous scene. As her head springs down into frame and halts suddenly inches from his face. In the silence we hear the reason: Annie's voice singing the same melody that her mother had sung to her earlier from the cellar. For a moment Henrietta's face loses its evil malice. She is confused at this sound. Henrietta halts. She spins her head toward Annie. As she finishes the melancholy song. Still confused, suddenly she shrieks and the chainsaw comes buzzing through her from behind. The spinning blade juts out from Henrietta's midsection. Body parts (2 arms) fly past the camera on wire. Ash slices and dices. Henrietta screeches like a wild banshee. As Pee Wee Head spins toward Ash, furious. Swallow your soul! Swings his chainsaw arm in a sharp arc. Henrietta's head is sliced from her neck with a chainsaw. Steam pours from her neck. As it flies up into frame, sliced from its neck. As he completes the arc of the chainsaw. As it hits the floor. It's neck spouts steam, wagging about like a snake. Behind her Annie watches as the body topples to the floor. He looks down. Swallow your soul! Swallow your soul! Ash's foot steps down upon her head, pinning it to the floor. Her neck still writhing. He unsaddles his sawed off shotgun from the holster on his back. He points the barrel at her head point blank. Swallow this. He pulls the trigger. Flame barks from the gun. Her head explodes into a million pieces. Annie is crying. Ash holsters the gun. May she rest in pieces. As they look at each other for a quiet moment of relief. Ash shuts off the chainsaw. Annie moves slowly to Ash's arms. He holds her. They pull apart and look into each others eyes. Annie holds the pages. Maybe they can get away after all. echoes throughout the cabin! As though the outside walls of the place were being bombarded by cannon balls. The kitchen wall behind them buckles. As the - board of the wall behind Ash falls away revealing battered logs. The mirror shatters. The wall cracks beneath the terrific force of whatever is outside hammering upon it. in on them as they look about in fear. Dust is falling about them. The cabin walls are starting to break apart. There is a tremendous "Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea" type jolt to the cabin. Ash and Annie stagger for footing. Ash grabs ahold of the window frame to brace himself. Vines wrap about the planks which cover the window. Behind him, the planks in the window are ripped away by finger-like vines. terrifying tree face on the surface of a giant oak is revealed, as it peeks in through the window at them. She screams. She turns toward Wall" at a loud wrenching sound. As vines reach in the cabin, tearing away the planks revealing an even more horrible tree face. tree beats its branches furiously upon the wall of the cabin. It rips apart the cabin's stone chimney. second gnarled tree slams its trunk against the rear door of the cabin. The entire cabin is surrounded by a group of lumbering oaks. All working to get in at Ash and Annie. Annie runs to the writing desk. She flips through the missing pages from the Book of the Dead. Dust from the ceiling drifts down. (shouting above the noise) No! only completed the first of the passages. And that was to make the evil a thing of the flesh! As it roars out of the woods, and towards the distant cabin faster than we've ever seen it. As he runs over to Annie. You didn't finish it?! There's still the second passage. The one to open the rift and send the evil back. Start reciting it. Now! As it rockets towards the cabin doing 80 mph. Shouting to be heard as she continues reading from the passage: Tar-tra Kanda-Estra! Hudsucker Proxy -- Kanda! The forest at night. Bubbling smoke appears, then flame. Through the smoke, the beginnings of a winding spiral of a cloudlike material. The rift. Aton-Neran-Ofas! As it races right up to the front door of the cabin. Reading from the passage. Behind her, the front door rips open and in comes a giant rotten apple head of the evil entity made flesh. Ash as he witnesses the most horrible sights a man can behold. Ash's black hair streaks white before our eyes. Behind him, two flowers in their pots wither and die in seconds. Finish it! Plate for previous scene, with dying flowers. Kanda! Samonda Roba Areda Gyes Indy En-zeen, Nos-Feratos - Annie as she gasps. Annie as she falls to the floor, dead. Jutting from her back is the Kandarian dagger and hanging onto the end of the dagger is Ash's demon hand. No! Behind Ash a living tree branch rips through the cabin window! Ash turns suddenly to get away. Too late. The living branch wraps about waist and lifts him, screaming, Ash is being lifted toward the gaping mouth of rotten apple head. Ash is frantically jerking out his arm in an attempt to start the chainsaw strapped to his wrist. It won't start. As the face of rotten apple head looms close, it opens its terrible mouth, ready to consume him. From inside the creature's mouth looking out. Ash is screaming as he is brought towards its gnashing teeth. His chainsaw still won't start. Half dead as she crawls to the pages on the floor and gasps out the final sentences. Nos-feratos - Amen-non. Ak-adeem! Razin - Arozonia! The rift grows more powerful. The rift. Sweating and terrified. He draws closer. The tracks in toward the mouth of rotten apple head. It's massive jaw jutts from the head, biting and snapping. Sap-like saliva drips from the orifice. Ash's feet kick at the mouth of rotten apple head, trying to keep it away. Its jaws snap at his shoes. The massive teeth snap together biting Ash's foot in half. He screams, then looks down to his foot. Missing the leather toe section, he reveals that he still has his toes intact. As he sharply jerks his arm outward! The to life! He raises it high above his head and plunges it forward. Ash thrusts the spinning chainsaw blade into the single eye of the beast. As it punctures the giant eyeball and then pulls free. Green sauce spouts from the creature's wound. As he is doused in the green bile. Eyeless, it screams in anger. With her last gasp. ....Kanda! As the rift pulls in fog and trees that surround the house. The Rift. As rotten apple head is sucked out the doorway of the cabin. The door slams shut behind it. Its scream echoes off into the distance. Slices through the bracch. Ash and cut branch fall to the floor. The cabin becomes much more quiet. The sounds of the trees are gone. Ash looks to Annie. She is dead. Ash moves to her, strokes her hair and begins to cry. You did it. By God you did it. He lowers his head and begins to heave in sharp convulsive breaths of despair. Behind Ash the front door open with a The door is sucked down into the rift. All of the objects in the room are sucked through the open doorway and down into the rift, including the pages of the Book of the Dead. Ash grabs ahold of the kitchen window ledge so as not to be swept outside by the force of the vacuum of the rift. Objects and papers fly past him. Upon the kitchen window ledge. The ledge tears free. As he screams, flying backward, towards the open door. The open doorway to the cabin. Ash flies towards it and is snagged from going through by the section of ledge that he holds. His body is horizontal, his feet dangling in air, in the direction of the rift. Ash as he hangs on for dear life. Objects continue to fly past on wires. For God's sake, how do you stop it? The nails in the section of ledge that Ash holds loose and the ledge in two. He spins wildly away from us and towards the rift. Ash is rocketed through the air, spinning somersaults. Ash is sucked down into the swirling rift. Like a particle that is swallowed by a deep funnel of draining water. The rift closed behind him. Plate for previous scene. We are now within the vortex. swirling mass of colors and clouds. And nightmarish sound effects. Objects come from the distance and roar past, an uprooted tree, the grandfather clock with its hands winding backwards at an incredible rate, Ash spinning hand over foot, screaming. The chainsaw still mounted to his wrist. The vortex is distorting Ash's features as he is rocketed back through the dark void of time. wild and rapid pictorial collage of human history winding back from the present through the centuries lasting seven seconds. hole opens in the air with a sharp Ash is spat from this hole and falls downward through frame. Plunged to the dust. Debris from the demolished cabin rains down around him; his shotgun, the 1973 Delta 88 Oldsmobile and the old grandfather clock. As it seals shut, leaving only the blue sky and the sound of tweeting birds. Ash's view of the serene sky changes abruptly as five steel helmets jut into his line of sight. Five armor-clad medieval stand directly over him. As he looks to the warriors above him. The first warrior raises a bloodstained longsword and poises it above Ash's head. Slay the beast! 'Tis a deadite! All raise their swords ready for the kill. Halt as they hear a piercing, high-pitched They turn their heads skyward. Follows the Warriors' gaze. a female harpy like creature with the tail of a sea horse and man-sized bat wings, enabling it to fly. The screaming beast swoops down towards the warriors and horses. High above, the distant shapes of other Winged Deadites circle. She lets out a screaming banshee laugh, while swooping down. As we swoop down toward the warriors and Ash. As he springs to his feet. With a lightning thrust he reaches behind him. As he grabs at the gun from its holster. He swings it around front and pulls the trigger. It discharges flame. It explodes. The beast continues to flap its wings and fly about a moment before falling to a heap in the dust. As he looks to Ash. They follow his gaze. The Ash. He stands alone on a small pile of rubble clutching his smoldering shotgun. He looks about dazedly. He tries to get his bearings. They falter. Unsure of how to react to this strange man, who a moment before was pronounced a Deadite. From the crowd, the Warrior #1 calls out: Hail he, who has come from the sky, to deliver us from the terrors of the deadites! Hail! Hail! The cry is taken up by all. line of medieval warriors bow. Then twenty. Then fifty. All remove their helmets and kneel silently in the dust. Somewhere in the distance a Ash stands frozen. Terrified, unsure of where or when he is. Knowing only for the present, he is alive. As the wind kicks up blowing dust, Ash strikes a familiar pose. It is the same image of the "Hero from the Sky" that we saw earlier in the film. The strange "jagged edged longsword" is Ash's chainsaw. The from him as a great medieval castle rears up It is seen to be the castle of Kandar. The same castle we saw in the beginning of the film. Now, however, the castle is not a ruin, but brand new. As the continues to pull back from Ash, the title appears on the screen acompanied by the distant of some dying animal: The cuts to Evil Dead Dead by Dawn : Sam Raimi Scott Spiegel : Horror Fant