<b><!-- </b>if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> Family Man line of about to board a Pan Am flight to London. 22, head full of long unkempt hair, Tom Selleck mustache, the hopeful look of youth in his eyes... sitting next to... 21, pretty, Dorothy Hamill haircut... rubbing the tears from her swollen red eyes... got you a few necessities... Kate hands Jack a new copy of Vonnegut’s “Cat’s Cradle.” Your copy was a mess... Jack accepts the book but he’s unable to take his eyes off Kate. She hands him a cassette. Every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way... All in one tape? also put side two of London Calling on there... Kate leans over and kisses him passionately on the lips. That was not officially the goodbye kiss. It was just an interim kiss... He looks at her, his eyes welling up. He pulls her close, kissing her deeply. Then... This will be the final boarding call for Pan Am flight 4 to London, Heathrow. Jack takes Kate’s hand, getting up, turning sadly to the gate. You have your ticket? Jack pulls out a Kate nods. They embrace and kiss again. As they separate. I’m not even gonna say it, Kate. Maybe it’ll be like never left... Jack takes one lastlook at her, then heads for the gate. Kate stands there, watching him go. Then... ...a moment of intuition. Something isn’t right. She looks at Jack, about to disappear into the jetway, trying to decide... Wait. Jack turns. Kate approaches him. have a bad feeling about this. About the plane? What do you think it’s gonna crash? Don’t say that... (shaking her head) know we’ve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart... this feels wrong. She looks at the gate...the last few passengers are boarding, then back into Jack’s eyes. Don’t go, Jack... You mean don’t go at all? What about my internship? Believe me know what an incredible opportunity this is for you... For us, Kate. Right, for us. But...I’m afraid that if you get on that plane... What? Kate looks at him, pleading with her eyes, but she can’t say... (torn) Go. I’m sorry, you should just go... (thinking, then...) No, you’re right. What are we doing? We're being responsible. Go. Get on the plane. His eyes narrow as he measures her determination... (a smile) Get the hell outta my sight. You bother me. laugh from Jack. Kate gives him a calm smile and a nod - it's not entirely convincing but it's enough for Jack. (resolute) Okay, I'm going... He takes her in his arms one last time and hugs her tight. Jack looks toward the gate, the line disappearing...Kate grasps his shirt tightly. can't seem to let go of you... You hear me complaining about that? sober look in Jack's eyes. Look, we're at the airport and no one ever thinks clearly at the airport so we should just trust the decision we already made. You've been accepted to one of the best law schools in the country, I've got this internship at Barclay's Bank. We have a great plan, honey... Kate nods, then, with resolve... You want to do something great, Jack? Let's flush the plan...start our lives right now, today...I don't know what that life's gonna look like but do know it has both of us in it. And choose us... Jack is jolted by her words. The plan doesn't make us great, Jack. What we have together, that's what makes us great. Her words sink in...A long moment of decision...He looks toward the gate, only one person left in line...back to Kate...imploring him with her eyes. Finally...He kisses her deeply on the lips... love you, Kate... ...a smile from Kate...relief...then... (taking her face in his hands) ...and a year in London's not gonna change that. hundred years couldn't change that... Jack gives her one final kiss then walks pensively to the gate, handing the attendant his ticket, not able to look back. Kate watches him go, tears streaming down her face, as the gate door closes behind him. She waits, almost willing it to open again...waiting...waiting...but it doesn't... The skating rink at Central Park...Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center...the view down Fifth Avenue with Christmas decorations...Park Avenue. We close in on a spectacular pre-war doorman building... huge space with gleaming hardwood floors, ornate moldings, and a great view of the Hudson and Jersey behind it... The place looks like a museum display...everything is of the highest quality and meticulously maintained. wall of photos - Jack and Clinton, Jack with Patrick Ewing, Jack between Alan Greenspan and Henry Kravis. And a "Willie Mays" baseball bat encased in glass... ...impeccably decorated and obsessively neat. Close in on the bed where now 35, sans mustache and long hair, opens his eyes. of bright morning light from the window. Jack shields his eyes, turning his head toward the bathroom where he sees... BACK...draped in a towel...an incredible back, neither flabby nor overly toned, beautifully curved...Jack focuses on it a moment. As the woman turns to him... Beautiful, late 20s, a toothbrush in her mouth... (holding up toothbrush) hope you don't mind. There were like ten new ones in the cabinet. playful smile from Paula. It's not what you think. took Mentadent public... Paula smiles, moves over to a chair and grabs a little black dress hanging neatly over it. Did you really mean what you said about Tuscany? Of course did. Last night was great... You are an amazing lover. You should be giving motivational seminars. Thanks. You're not bad yourself... Jack grabs his Frank Mueller watch from the night stand, puts it on his wrist. He looks at Paula as she slips the dress on. want to see you again. I'd like that, too. Tonight. She turns to him. It's Christmas Eve, Jack. So we'll get egg nog. Paula laughs. (putting on her shoes) have to go to my parents' house out in Jersey. Would you like to come? Jersey? You know what the traffic's gonna be like? I'm taking the train... Paula approaches Jack, leaning over him, her long hair dangling on his chest. Don't you have anywhere to go? I've got plenty of places to go. He stays there, confident, sexy, waiting for an answer... (a sexy laugh, then...) Maybe can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning... (kissing him on the lips) Okay? (coy) If it's something you feel strongly about. Paula walks to the door, then turns back to Jack. It was nice meeting you, Jack... Jack saunters over to a Yamaha Grand Disclavier in the living room. He puts a disk into the piano and... ...the keys come alive with the music of Jack hits a switch and suddenly the entire apartment is enveloped in music... Paula, waiting for the elevator, hears the emanating from Jack’s apartment...an intrigued glance back at the apartment door as the elevator arrives... Back’s “Passion According to St. Matthew” is blaring through the speakers, the music is swelling to full orchestra... Jack’s at the mirror in this incredibly neat marble- tiled bathroom, shaving with a silver-plated Hammacher Schlemmer razor, with the orchestra... ...the size of a small house, a long row of Zegna suits, shoe trees stacked with Italian shoes, tailored shirts everywhere. Jack’s still to the music as he dresses in front of a mirror. Jack, wearing an elegant camel’s hair overcoat and carrying a leather briefcase, a “Master of the Universe” smile on his face, now the Bach piece from memory... The doors open at 6. Jack self-consciously stops singing as 60s, wearing a mink coat, gets on the elevator carrying a yappy little dog. (a charming smile) Mrs. Peterson. Hello Jack. You don’t have to stop singing on my account... It’s because I’m shy, Betty. So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me? You know you could never satisfy me the way he does... The doors open to the lobby. Mrs. Peterson walks out ahead. holds the door open for Jack and Mrs. Peterson... Merry Christmas, Mr. Campbell. How’d you do this year, Tony? About four grand. And a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from Mrs. Johnson in I’m putting it all in commercial paper like you said. Just until the Deutsche Mark turns... Jack exits the building... Jack’s Ferrari racing through the park... modern Wall Street building. The sign above the glass doors reads, Lassiter and Associates, Investment House.” The Ferrari to a halt. Jack gets out, heads into the building... ...Jack throws his keys to a nearby with a smile on his way to the elevators... The Manhattan skyline shines through the windows of this beautiful conference room. are seated at a huge oak table littered with coffee cups and lunch waste. At the end of the table, 30s, balding, sits with a faraway look in his eyes, three empty Diet Coke cans in front of him. Mintz is poking at a shiny gold cherub dangling from a small, plastic Christmas tree, sitting in the middle of the table. Jack is addressing the group from the front of the room, standing in front of a computer with a huge flat screen monitor, covered with stock charts and tables... ...if MedTech's shares sink any lower than... (casually executing a keystroke) ...forty three, we're in trouble with the stock valuation. So for god's sake watch what you say to your institutional customers... Jack notices Alan Mintz playing with the cherub. ...we still have almost a full day of trading before zero hour and don't want any trouble... (distracted by Mintz) ...penny for your thoughts, Alan... Alan looks up. Sorry, Jack. told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner. You know, it being Christmas Eve and all. Is that tonight? from the group. Jack approaches Alan. You think like being here on Christmas Eve, Alan? don't know. Maybe... Another Even Jack lets out a good-natured chuckle. Okay, maybe do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season. But in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in corporate history. Thirty billion dollars... (basking in the glory) When this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over. You don't ask it for a vacation... chuckle from the group...the esprit de corps seems to energize Jack. (to the group) December 26th. After that there'll be so much money floating around here it'll be like Christmas every day... (smiling) December 26th, people. If you'd like to celebrate that day, you all have my blessing... Enthusiastic nods and words of agreement from the suits around the table... You're right, Jack. Sorry... Jack approaches Alan. don't want you to be sorry, Alan, want you to be excited. want my gift to be the first one you open this year. You know why? Why Jack? Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end... of excitement in the room, even Alan cracks a smile. Jack puts a hand on Alan's shoulder. Good man... The conference room door opens and the emerge, each met by an handing them messages. Jack is the last one out. He's met in stride by 50s, carrying a Filofax and a pile of phone messages. Only eight thirty? What's the matter, had some last minute shopping to do? Jack pops a peppermint Lifesaver in his mouth as Adelle hands him his messages. You too? This holiday's about giving, Adelle. And I'm giving everything I've got to this deal, so in a way, I'm more Christmassy than anyone... (holding out the candy) Lifesaver? (ignoring the candy) You're a ray of sunshine, Jack. They approach an office, the words, "Jack Campbell - President" stenciled on the glass... ...continuing past Adelle's desk, Jack looking at his messages, and into Jack's office... cavernous office, you could land a helicopter in it - high tech fixtures, full bar, leather sofa, $3,000 Stairmaster... Jack walks to an enormous, bare mahogany desk, and sits down in a high tech ergonomic leather chair. Oh, and Oxxford called... Ooh, my suits are ready... He gets to the last message, sees the name on it, and reels back. Kate Reynolds... Her assistant said you could call her at home after eight. Jack stares at the message like he's looking at a ghost. Her assistant? Yeah Jack, her assistant... (lost in the message) Kate Reynolds was my girlfriend in college. almost married her... (a hearty You? Married? (snapping out of it) Almost married. And almost a junior broker at Hutton... Excuse me? She didn't want me to go to London. We're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay. So you left her? Just like that? God, no. thought about it for practically the entire flight... Stop Jack, I'm getting all weepy. took the road less traveled, Adelle. And look where it's led you... (picking up the phone) I'm gonna get her on the phone... Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting back... Adelle begins dialing the number. Finally, Jack reaches out and hangs up the phone. No... No?! You almost married this woman. Aren't you even curious what she wants? She's probably just having a fit of nostalgia. You know, lonely Christmas Eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing. Adelle rolls her eyes at him. I'm telling you, it's ancient history... Jack looks up as 60s, founder and chairman of Lassiter and Associates, saunters into the room. Eight forty-five on Christmas Eve and Jack Campbell is still at his desk. There's a Hallmark moment for you... Lassiter heads to the bar like he's done it a million times. Peter. don't see you rushing home to trim the tree. (pouring himself a scotch) That's because I'm a heartless bastard who only cares about money. And God love you for it. Lassiter drops down in a soft leather chair opposite Jack. (sipping the scotch) just got a call from Terry Haight. Bob Thomas is nervous... That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin... Someone's gonna have to nurse him through this. Why are you staring at my breasts, Peter? need you, tiger.. Where is he? Aspen. Jack pauses for a beat. (to Adelle) Call Aunt Irma. Tell her won't be able to make it tomorrow... Adelle rolls her eyes at him... You're a credit to capitalism, Jack. Jack glances at Adelle, then looks back at Lassiter. Hey Peter, lemme ask you a question. An old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on Christmas Eve... You suddenly having trouble getting dates? Not by a long shot. Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns. You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose. Jack shoots Adelle a satisfied smile, crumpling up Kate's message and tossing a perfect hook into a Knicks hoop. (to Adelle) I'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon. Call the group. Schedule an emergency strategy session for noon. That'll be a nice little holiday treat. single light remains on in the building. Jack is alone in the office working on his computer, checking spreadsheets on a large flat screen monitor. Jack leans back in his chair rubbing his eyes. He checks his watch. It's past eleven. He gets up, goes to the window, sees the city in all its Christmas glory, then he see it... ...the message from Kate, crumpled in the trashcan...then turns back to the window, gazing out at the night... Jack comes out of the elevator, walking past the lobby desk where a security guard, sits watching the monitors. Mr. Campbell. Why didn't you call down, would've had Joe get your ride. Jack looks outside the front door to the snowy, quiet street. I'm thinking might walk tonight, Frank. Nice night for it. I'll have Louis send your car home. nod from Jack. Merry Christmas to you, sir... Thanks. To you too... Jack puts on a pair of soft leather gloves and heads out into the crisp night air... Jack emerges from the building, walking across the large plaza, past the fountain...snow begins to fall... Jack's walking down the nearly empty street, snow falling down on him, a bounce in his step, looking at the windows of the closed shops along the way. He gets to the end of the block spots the Wong Brothers' 24 Hour Deli across the street... He heads toward it... Jack walks into the brightly lit deli... 20s, is with his 80-year-old behind the counter. There's a at the salad bar, a drunken at the liquor display, a with a in an aisle and... ...a 30s, with a dollar sign and the name tattooed on his arm, stands in front of the coffee machine... Oh yeah...yeah, yee-ah! She's a certified winner...paper- thin but good as gold... Jack notices Cash talking to himself, seemingly crazy. Jack approaches Sam Wong at the counter. Egg nog? (pointing) Dairy case. Five dollar. (in the b.g., to Sam Wong) Y'all do the lotto here...? `Cause got me a winner...I know, know, Lotto keeps the black man down... but not me... Jack grabs a carton of egg nog, then notices Cash handing Sam Wong his ticket. Jack heads back toward the counter... ...06...14...18...48...right there. Four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar... (a smile) Merry Christmas and shit... (barely looking at ticket) Ticket bad. You draw in lines with pencil. What're you talkin' about? (throwing the ticket back) You draw lines with pencil! know about this! The woman with the baby looks over...the college kid looks up, nervous...the drunken Santa, bottle of bourbon in hand, starts to walk by Jack...Jack instinctively puts an arm out, holding the Santa back... What!? Look at the ticket...! Get out, call 911. The Santa looks at Jack, confused. You're lookin' at me, you're not even lookin' at the ticket! The woman with the baby puts a loaf of bread back on the shelf, starts nervously inching toward the door. You leave now. Take ticket somewhere else. (calling out) Next customer in line...! You first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich making... (screaming) Get out! Just watching...Cash shoves the ticket in Sam Wong's face... moment of decision for Jack. Then... (carefully) Let me see that ticket. Cash turns to Jack. (menacing) Was talkin' to you?! Jack looks at the woman, the college kid, the Santa, then... Maybe I'll buy it from you. Now Cash walks over to Jack... Guy in $2,000 suit gets ass kicked tryin' to be a hero. Film at eleven... (then...turning to the coffee machine) What?! Oh no, not another lookie-loo. You know how big a job this is? The patrons exchange nervous glances...Jack watches, confused. You're double bookin' me! You're gonna get double billed! Shit! Cash throws a bottle of Perrier against the wall, it The woman reels back in terror with the baby... Hey, c'mon... In a flash, Cash whips a .38 from the back of his pants, aiming it at Jack's face. The woman covers her baby. (in Jack's face) Do you want to die? Jack stares at Cash, trying his best to keep his cool... No. (a smile) Yes you do... Look, I'm talking about a business deal here. buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter... (glaring at Sam Wong) ...doesn't have a death wish (back to Cash) just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars. Cash gets closer... Like said, it's a business deal... Damn, you are the real thing... Cash narrows his eyes...then, a smile as he puts the gun back into his pants... C'mon, Jack, let's get outta here... (to Sam Wong) You were lookin' at me, papa, you shoulda been lookin' at the ticket. That ticket was legit, You're fake... Cash starts out of the deli. Jack follows... Jack and Cash walking down the street...Jack, holding his carton of egg nog under his arm, counting out two hundred dollars... How'd you know my name was Jack? call all you white guys "Jack." Jack nods... You know you seem pretty relaxed for a guy who just had a gun pulled on him. There's no way was gonna die in that deli... (off Cash's look) Let's just say I've been on a lucky streak lately. (a big lucky streak, huh? Jack hands him the money. Sound pretty sure of yourself, don't you? Jack nods. So you're telling me, you've got a gun to your head and you don't think for one second, what if this, what if that, maybe shouldn't do this, shoulda done that. don't do that. That's just not for me... Cash looks at him, then smiles. Okay, Jack. Nice doing business with you... Cash is about to take off... Hey... Cash turns around. What do you want to carry that gun around for, anyway? You're just gonna do something you'll regret... You want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person. Jack casually takes the egg nog out of the bag, opens the carton... I'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy. At a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back... Yeah, in most cases that'd be true. Jack takes a sip of the egg nog. mean there must be programs out there, opportunities... (a deep laugh) Wait a minute, wait a minute... you're tryin' to save me? look from Jack... Oh man, you're serious... (out to the street) This man thinks need to be saved! Everyone needs something. Cash looks at Jack... Yeah? What do you need? Me? You just said everyone needs something. I've got everything need. Wow. It must be great being you. You got it all. Cash looks at Jack. He smiles and shakes his head. Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work... (a hearty You still think this is about me, don't you? Sure it's about you. But it's about society, too. Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one... Just remember, Jack, you did this. You brought this on yourself... And with that, Cash turns and leaves Jack alone on the street with his egg nog... Jack walks in and throws his keys on a table. He takes off his gloves and overcoat, glances at the mail, then heads into the bedroom. Through the large windows we see snow falling... Jack, flat on his back in bed, fast asleep... Close in on Jack’s face, bathed in morning light...he opens his eyes...feels something strange... Jack looks down...there’s a woman’s head resting on his chest. look of confusion crosses his face...trying to remember... did he meet a woman last night...? He turns his head to find a large sitting faithfully beside the bed, wagging his tail... ...did she have a dog? He looks down at the woman again, craning his neck to get a look at her face. And then he sees her... ...now 34 and even more beautiful, a look of utter contentment on her radiant face, sleeping soundly... His head darts around the room - it’s cramped and lived in, clothes and toys are strewn about, family photos on the dresser, Laura Ashley curtains, a tiny poster bed and a charming little bay window. He instinctively reaches for his Franck Mueller watch on the night stand, but it’s not there. It’s a Timex Indiglo and it reads, “7:57 Jack looks back at Kate...he rubs his eyes...maybe it’s a dream...but nothing changes. Then, Kate stirs... Mmmm...ten more minutes, Jack... it’s Christmas... Jack jumps as he hears Kate talk for the first time... Suddenly, the door bursts open...A in a little nightgown, walks into the room carrying an 18 at the top of her lungs... Jingle bells, Santa s mells, Rudolph laid an egg...la la la, la-la la la, la la la la la... Annie places Josh on the bed and then jumps up herself. She gestures to the dog, patting the bed. You too, Luce... The dog faithfully jumps on the tiny bed, joining everybody else and leaving very little room. Annie starts jumping. Rise...and...shine...! (stirring) You’re jumping, sweetheart... Jack looks at this activity like a man at his own funeral. Mom, don’t you think we need to open the presents? (groggy) Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her present... Josh crawls directly up to Jack’s stomach, climbing on. C’mon, Dad. Get up! She said “Dad.” That’s it. Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying next to it. He picks up the bat...the same Willie Mays autograph bat that was encased in glass in his apartment. Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself for the first time...he’s naked... ...a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on the bed... ...he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow cardigan off the chair and throws them on... Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand. Jack...? Jack turns by instinct. Kate grabs him, drawing him near. look of fear on his face as Kate opens her eyes... Eye contact...Jack’s certain he’s about to hear her scream... (still groggy) Strong coffee, okay? She lets him go as Jack backs out the door... garishly decorated Christmas tree sits in the middle of this messy and disorganized living room, a bevy of gifts underneath and four red stockings over the fireplace. Jack darts to the top of the steps... (calling from the bedroom) Use an entire can if you have to! He looks back at the bedroom, then at the stairs...quickly heading down the steps, still in shock. He grabs an overcoat from a hook by the front door...about to step out when he looks down and realizes... ...he’s barefoot. He glances at a pair of rubber over- boots sitting by the door, slips them on, just about to leave when... He hears the sound of a in the door lock...Jack looks at the door, not quite sure what to do... The door opens...into the house, arms laden with wrapped gifts, walk and (both 60s), Kate’s parents. Big Ed’s wearing a ten gallon hat and a suede overcoat. Lorraine has a cigarette dangling from her mouth. (drawing on a memory) Ed? Lorraine? Big Ed hugs Jack as best he can with an armful of gifts. Jack you ol’ bird dog. Merry Christmas to ya’... Lorraine plants a big fat kiss on Jack’s cheek. Talk to him, Jack. Please. One day a year away from the Ponderosa. don’t think that’s too much to ask. heard that. This is who am, woman! (a wink to Jack) Tell her, Jack! You’re the only one who gets me, for god’s sake! Jack, still holding the door open, plotting his escape. need some egg nog... ‘Course you do. Hell, it’s almost 8 a.m. (shouting upstairs) Where are my two l’il pardners? Annie! Josh! Giddy up, Bid Ed’s here! Excuse me. Jack dashes out the door. Where are you going, Jack? (to Big Ed) Where’s he going? Damned if know... They start to remove their coats, when... The door flies back open... Where’s my car?! Where’s my Ferrari!? What the hell are you talking about? (to Lorraine) What’s he talking about? Look, can just borrow your car?! promise it’ll be returned! The Caddy? Why don’t you take your own damn car! Oh just let him borrow your precious Cadillac, for god’s sake. Jack spots a set of keys hanging on a hook. He’s got a perfectly good mini-van sitting out there in the driveway! Jack grabs the keys off the hook...darts back outside... Jack emerges from this charming, suburban two-story house, some tasteful Christmas lights decorating a tree in the center of the snow-covered lawn... He races to a blue Dodge mini-van sitting in the driveway, a “My Ferrari Is In The Shop” sticker on the rear bumper. He climbs into the mini-van and peels out of the driveway... Jack sees a sign, “George Washington Bridge - 3 miles”... Jack driving over the bridge. sigh of relief as he passes under a sign for “Manhattan.” The mini-van pulls up near Jack’s apartment building. Jack, still wearing pajamas under the coat, leaps out, running toward the grand entrance where Tony stands sternly in front. Tony, thank god... Jack starts to walk past but Tony blocks the way. Sorry, pal. Entrance is for residents and guests only... What are you talking about? It’s me, Jack Campbell. Penthouse put you into commercial paper! (not moving) Uh-huh... Just then, Mrs. Peterson walks to the door with her little Tony opens the door for her... Elizabeth Peterson! The little dog starts ferociously at Jack. (to Tony re: Jack, annoyed) Who is this man? Tony shrugs his shoulders. You know me, Betty. You do. Jack Campbell. We’re on the co-op board together. We fought side by side for garbage disposals. Every morning we exchange quasi-sexual witty banter. Think... She looks at Jack with a raised eyebrow, the dog still (to Mrs. Peterson) Should call the cops? I’m gonna call the cops... Jack pleads to her with his eyes. (raising a hand to Tony) No... (a sigh of relief) Thank you, Betty. know if can just sleep this off, I’ll be fine... And sleep you shall. Noblesse oblige is not dead. Not yet anyway...Come, let’s get you some help. Surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city. shelter?! I’m the richest guy in the building...I’ve got twice the square footage you have! Mrs. Peterson shakes her head at him, a look of pity on her face. Frustrated, Jack turns and runs back to the mini-van... Jack pulls up across the street and gets out of the van. Running across the empty plaza toward the building entrance... Jack bursts through the door, approaching the lobby desk where the security guard sits. Frank spots Jack and blocks his way. Whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there... Frank. Where’s Alan Mintz? Is he here yet? Mr. Mintz? (a knowing chuckle) don’t think so...building’s closed pal. You’ll have to come back tomorrow. Look, don’t know what’s going on here but am Senior Vice President of this company. don’t care who you are. It’s Christmas and like told you the building is closed. Maybe you’re not hearing me. am Jack Campbell... (approaching the building directory) Right here. Jack Campbell, President... And then he sees it...”ALAN - listed plain as day on the building director... Jack looks at Frank, then back to the building directory... pitying look from Frank...Jack stands there, in shock... ...it’s desolate... Jack walks through the plaza like a zombie, his face registering nothing. He crosses the street, moving toward the mini-van...oblivious...when... SCREECH...a Ferrari stops within inches of Jack’s torso...a from the car... Hey! Watch where you’re walking! Jack turns...sees the low in the seat...can’t quite make out the face... You almost dented my two hundred thousand dollar car! Jack...still stunned...looks at the car, very familiar...the voice of the driver, also familiar... That’s right! My new car’s worth more than your shitty house! look of realization on Jack’s face... feel like really did win the lottery! ...it’s Cash, and he’s in Jack’s car... Jack moves over to the passenger window in shock...a smile from Cash... Miss me, Jack? That’s my car! You stole my car! It’s a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate contract... What?! Basically, it’s my car now. Get in. Cash reaches over and opens the door. Jack hesitates... Look, don’t make the rules, Jack. This is how it works. Get in. Cash gives him a reassuring look. Jack gets in... Jack closes the door...Cash joyfully drives off in a burst of acceleration...Jack practically ends up in the back seat... Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack... (recovering) What the hell is happening to me?! Jack’s freaking out and Cash is enjoying every minute of it. Cash hands Jack a paper bag. Jack starts breathing into the bag. This kinda thing makes a lotta guys throw up. Seen it happen. So if you get the urge, do it out the window. (with a taunting laugh) don’t want you marring this exquisite leather interior... Cash looks over at Jack...he’s really losing it, sobbing into the bag...almost hyperventilating...Cash smiles... Look, don’t know what you’re getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself. Brought what on myself?! didn’t do anything! No? C’mon, Jack...I’ve got everything need, don’t have regrets, that’s just not for me... sound familiar? You mean because you thought was cocky I’m now on a permanent acid trip?!! Cash gets a laugh out of Jack’s overreaction... Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you. You’re making a business deal... (enraged) Give me my goddamn life back! You? What about me? I’m working hard for you here, Jack. On Christmas too! Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way. was moved... (interrupting) Please. Just tell me what’s happening to me. In plain English. None of that mumbo jumbo... Cash turns to Jack. It’s a glimpse, Jacko. glimpse? glimpse of what!? What glimpse?! Glimpse! Look, eventually, everybody gets one...some of ‘em take a couple seconds... (looking at Jack) ...some of ‘em take a lot longer... asked you a direct question! glimpse of what?! look from Cash. Figure it out. You got plenty of time. How much time?! As long as it takes to figure it out. Which, in your case, could be considerable. Look, just want my life back. Now what’s it gonna take? You wanna talk turkey? Let’s talk turkey! How much money...? Cash looks at Jack, relishing the moment. He flashes Jack a smile. Do look like need your money. It doesn’t work like that and can’t tell you why. Why not? Because you got to figure it out for yourself. (beat) Are you listening to me? Figure it out? Figure what out?! Cash just stares at him... That’s it? That’s all get?! glare?! Look Jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it...let it come to you. Jack faces Cash, simmering...with frustration. Look, don’t have time for this right now. I’m in the middle of a deal... Oh you’re working on a new deal now...did mention that? You know what? I’ve had it with you. I’ve had it with all of this shit... SCREECH...Cash slams on the brakes...practically sending Jack through the windshield. Jack recovers, looks up...the car is parked right next to the mini-van. Cash pulls out a small plastic bag, holding it out to Jack... Here... Jack looks inside the bag, pulls out a He looks at it curiously. What’s this, a signal? Will you come whenever ring it? Do look like live in a bottle? Cash reaches across Jack and opens the door. (lost) But what do do? Look Jack I’m late. I’d love to help you out some more but gotta go handle my business... (gesturing to the mini-van) Happy trails. Jack looks out to the lonely street outside, then back to Cash. Hey, you did this to me, you can’t just leave me like this. Cash looks at Jack, the desperation on his face. Fine. You want to know everything, I’ll tell you everything. But not here. Let’s get some air... Jack’s still a little unsure...he sees Cash open the driver side door... (relieved) Thanks, man... Jack gets out of the car...and before he can even turn around, Cash’s door shut and the car takes off in a blast of horsepower... Jack stands there gazing down the street, listening to the sound of the Ferrari shifting gears, disappearing... The wind whips up...shivering, Jack looks toward the Lassiter Building, then to the plastic bag in his hand, and finally to the mini-van. The blue mini-van snakes through the curved streets of the neighborhood, almost all the houses decorated for Christmas. Jack’s trying to find the house, a map unfolded on the steering wheel and the car’s registration in his hand... He spots late 30s, carrying an empty science kit box to the trash. His wife, also late 30s, is getting in a Ford Taurus wagon, a bowl of fruit in hand... Jack pulls up to the curb near Arnie, rolling down the window. Excuse me. Do you know where Merrison Street is? Arnie looks up and sees Jack in the van. (turning to his wife) Jeannie! found Jack! Jack follows Arnie into the den of this garishly decorated suburban home, Arnie’s arm around his shoulder. You look terrible... Jack takes in the decor – it’s a male leisure time fantasy – old pinball machine, wide screen dart board, and kitschy ‘50s style bamboo bar... Truth is expected you. Kate called before and asked if knew where you were. Arnie notices Jack’s fascination with the room... know, moved the Barca-lounger into the corner. It’s throwin’ everybody off. What do you think? (with a nod) Great room... satisfied smile from Arnie, Jack’s approval means something to him. You and me, buddy. We know how to live... Arnie shepherds Jack onto a bar stool and pours a drink out of a bamboo bottle holder. So Jack, you okay? Jack doesn’t respond, his eyes drawn to a softball team photo on the bar...Jack and Arnie kissing a huge trophy with the caption, “Plainfield, Softball League Champs, 1994.” mean you leave the house on Christmas morning, you don’t tell anyone where you’re going... Jack looks over from the photo to Arnie... We’re friends, aren’t we? Maybe don’t say it enough but you moving in next door to me... Arnie makes a fist and gestures to his heart. Jack nods. Talk to me... moment of decision for Jack as Arnie stands there, open eyed, ready to listen. I’m having kind of a bad day. (nodding) read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays... raised eyebrow from Jack. (to himself) What am saying? You don’t need to hear that... (back to Jack) All meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, that’s all. Is that you? Is it...? Trouble at work? don’t think so. It’s not Kate, is it? Jack pauses at the mention of Kate. Arnie’s eyes widen... (proudly) You see, it’s like we’re in each other’s heads... Kate’s my wife... Jack looks at Arnie as if he’s seeking confirmation. (a playful smile) Just keep saying it, Jack, like a mantra. Arnie comes out from behind the bar, taking Jack by the arm. C’mon, better walk ya home. She’s mad enough as it is, right...? Arnie walks Jack through his backyard... Look, you fit the profile exactly. Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities. You start thinking...this isn’t the life dreamt about. Where’s the romance, where’s the joie de vivre? Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you can’t have... (thinking, then...) It’s just two kids, right? chuckle from Arnie. You made a choice, Jack, a promise to your wife. Maybe sometimes it seems like you gave up the world, but look what you got... They arrive at...the backyard of the Campbell house... cluttered with a swing set, a dog run with chewed up lawn, and a wooden sun deck in the process of being built... Four bedrooms, two and a half baths, and a partially finished basement... Jack trips over a wayward (shaking his head) Kids... Arnie leads Jack toward the house. Okay look, you probably don’t want to hear this right now but remember what you told me last summer when almost had that thing with Arnie Jr.’s speech therapist. blank stare from Jack as they arrive at the sliding glass door...Arnie faces Jack squarely, grabbing his shoulders and looking him in the eye. Don’t screw up the best thing in your life just because you’re a little unsure about who you are. Okay? Arnie gives Jack a comforting smie... God, it feels so good to finally give something back to you... Arnie turns Jack toward the door and slides it open. I’m gonna hug you now... Arnie gives Jack a gentle hug...then gives him a little push toward the door... Jack steps inside. He turns back to the door but Arnie’s gone. Then, Kate enters the room, holding a portable phone... (into phone) Hold on a second... She cups the receiver. Jack looks at her, she’s dressed now, nothing fancy but she looks great. You cut your hair... curious look from Kate. Ten years ago... Kate just stands there looking at Jack, giving away nothing. Are you okay? Yeah...fine. She gives him a resolute nod, then... (into phone) Never mind, he just walked in... Jack grimaces as she resolutely hangs up the phone then stares him down angrily. Do you have any idea what you put us through today?! You walk out of here at 7:30 in the morning, don’t tell me where you’re going, or even that you’re going, and don’t see you ‘til hours later. had state troopers looking for you! called hospitals... (pointing at the phone) was just on the phone with the morgue for god’s sake! Jack watches her vent, the frustration on his face building. What kind of man leaves his family on Christmas morning without a word about where he’s going? Jack’s almost to a breaking po What kind of man does that!? (jumping in) don’t know! Please stop yelling at me! She looks at him curiously. Where were you? was in the city. The city? New York City? Why? Because that’s where live. Jack...don’t even start... Look, you don’t understand. woke up here...and this is very strange ...this is not my house... raised eyebrow from Kate. Jack moves around the room... (pointing upstairs) I’m not “Dad...”. Kate, you’re not my wife... Kate looks him over, assessing, then... You know what, Jack? It’s not funny this time. I’m really angry. She stares him down, expecting an answer. But he has no answer. (loudly) Jack! Jack takes the bell out of the plastic bag that Cash gave him, holds it up in front of her and starts it furiously. Then...Annie rides into the room on her new bike. (re: bell) What’s that? Jack watches as she pedals over, reaches into his hand and takes the bicycle bell... (examining the bell) like this... (jumping up and giving hima peck on the cheek) ...thanks, Dad! Annie rides excitedly out of the room on her bike. Leaving Jack and Kate alone again... You missed the whole thing, Jack. The pancakes, the presents...you spent six hours putting that bike together and you didn’t even get to see the look on Annie’s face when she opened it... Jack sees the disappointment on her face... You missed Christmas, Jack. Jack looks down, almost ashamed...he relents, giving in to the moment... I’m...I’m sorry. Kate looks at him. He seems sincere enough... Look, we don’t have time for this right now, we’ll talk about it later. Now get dressed... (pointing to his outfit) You’re not wearing that to the Thompsons’ party. don’t care how hilarious you think it is... Party? Oh no, can’t go to a party... You look forward to this party all year. What’s with you today? Trust me on this Kate. really don’t think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time. Kate looks at him a moment, then shakes her head. Fine. Do whatever you want. She picks up the phone, starts dialing... What are you doing? Telling my mother she doesn’t have to stay with the kids. Why not? Because you’ll be here. Kate just looks at him. I’ll be ready in ten minutes. He walks past her...toward a hallway door, Kate watching him... He opens the door...it’s a closet. Christ... (turning around) Where the hell is the bathroom? Funny, Jack. I’m laughing on the inside. The light comes on... Jack walks in, looks in the mirror, determined to collect himself...but something’s not right... He glances around...the bathroom is small and it’s cluttered with Kate’s razors, loofah, skin creams... ...none of this stuff is his... ...he looks in the mirror again, his face revealing a forlorn sense of displacement... ...he stares at himself until...he starts to lose it... anger, confusion...sadness...finally, he begins breaking down... After a moment, he turns on the water, rinsing his face... Jack at the closet door, looking at a row of Hagar slacks, Docker sport coats and imitation leather shoes... He reaches in and touches the fabric on one of the sport coats. This is just... (searching for the words) ...this is sub-par... Annie appears at the bedroom door, watching Jack at the closet. He turns...sees Annie watching him...a look exchanged... then, Annie runs away... Jack turns back to the closet and mournfully takes a pair of the slacks... Jack and Kate, a casserole dish in her hand, walk up the path to this tacky but large house, its outside decorated with the most garish display of Christmas decorations this side of Pasaic. Kate the doorbell... 30s, wearing a dress that’s a bit too tight and a bit too low cut, opens the door... Kate! Jack! (turning around, to guests) Everybody, Jack and Kate are here! Jack looks right past her...to the house filled with 50 loud from the guests...Jack has the look of a condemned man on his face as he follows Kate inside... As Kate heads into the living room, Evelyn takes Jack’s arm... (suggestively) Like the dress...? (glancing at it) It’s lovely... (a satisfied smile) thought saw you notice it at the kids’ recital. Jack shoots her a confused look...then walks in, trying to catch up with Kate... The party is in full swing, Christmas music in the b.g., talking, laughing, drinking egg nog... Jack’s eyes dart around the room...it’s large, neater than his and Kate’s house but still very lived in...The Thompson run in and out of the room, playing with new toys... nobody is wearing or eating anything imported from Europe, but everyone’s having a good time... ...everyone except for Jack, standing with Arnie and having his ear chewed off by a walking advertisement for Levi’s Cotton Dockers... Did you see Van Horn last night? This kid’s gonna single-handedly save basketball in the state of New Jersey... The Nets? You’re kidding, right...? Nick looks at him in disbelief. (recovering) Well...they’re certainly due. a huge pile of fried chicken wings on his plate, tugs at Jack’s shirt. So tomorrow’s the big day, Jackie... Okay...why? Triple bypass. I’m going under the knife. told you, didn’t Triple bypass? (pointing to his plate) You really think you should be eating all that? Why not? figure I’m going in for a cleaning tomorrow, might as well load up on the fried stuff tonight... Good thinking, Bill. Have another drink. (whispering to Jack) He’ll be lucky if he lives through the night... Nick reaches into his pocket and pulls out a packet of Dutch Masters cigars. He shows them to Jack, Jack nods politely. Nick eagerly hands him one... Nick lights Jack’s cigar, then his own...enjoying that first puff...smiling at Jack...Jack dutifully takes a puff of the cigar...nods back at Nick...but it’s an effort... Evelyn Thompson approaches, a tray of in hand... (holding out a puff to Jack) Finger food...? don’t think so, thank you... (suggestively) C’mon, as soon as put them down, you’re gonna grab a couple...you always do... Kate sees Evelyn and Jack from her position on the other side of the room...Kate watches as... Evelyn holds the puff up to Jack’s mouth, slowly putting it near his lips... Let me. They’ll melt in your mouth... He instinctively opens his mouth as Evelyn pushes the treat inside... Good? On Jack’s face...if freezer burn were a facial expression, this would be it... (forcing a smile) They’re great! Thank you! ...Evelyn licks her fingers suggestively then hands Jack the entire tray with a sexy smile... raised eyebrow from Kate, still watching... Mushroom puffs aren’t the only thing do well... Well do whatever it is you do well, and just...just do it. Excuse me... Evelyn nods as Jack walks toward the staircase... Kate follows Jack with her eyes as he climbs the stairs... Jack is sitting on the arm of a couch filled with guests’ coats, talking on a telephone...the tray of mushroom puffs on the table... (loudly, into phone) ...what do you mean he won’t come to the phone?! (standing, indignant) Do you realize how much money I’ve made for that sonuvabitch in the last eight years?! Click. dial tone. Jack slams the phone down... Damnit! He slams the phone again...and again...and again... Jack...? Jack turns, sees Kate standing in the doorway, watching him take his frustrations out on the phone, concern on her face. Are you sure you’re okay...? forced smile from Jack. Yes, I’m fine. It’s just this god awful football phone! Who has a phone like this anyway?! (doubtful) Uh huh... Kate notices the tray of mushroom puffs on the table. You must really love Evelyn’s mushroom puffs, huh? (with a wink) You know they’re not real... She turns and leaves...Jack looks at her, confused... Jack comes down the stairs, a lost look in his eyes. He looks across the room and sees... Kate, with a group of looking great in her jeans and white blouse, the center of attention. Jack passes through the guests, people waving to him, slapping him on the back as he approaches Kate... He catches Kate’s eye...she gives him a subtle smile. (to guests) ...then she asks me to put this sweater on. What choice do have, right? Jack watches as Kate charms the crowd... But as I’m slipping it on notice she’s misspelled the word “lawyers.” (laughing) had to go through the entire day wearing a hand embroidered sweater that said, “Non-Profit Layers Do It For Free.” The guests laugh again. Even Jack finds himself laughing, until... (to Kate, off-hand) So you’re a lawyer...? chuckle from the group. Kate’s confused. non-profit lawyer... People are starting to (a little embarrassed) Jack... Pro bono. You don’t get paid at all. Nobody makes a dime. Well, bravo... Blank stares from everyone, including Kate... Kate and Jack walk in the front door...the dog greets them happily, jumping up on Jack, a weary look on his face. better go wake my mother... Kate grabs a leash off a hook and hands it to Jack. Here you go... You’re kidding me... She’s your dog, Jack. No, she’s not. Fine, she’s the kid’s dog. Let’s go wake Josh, see if he wants to walk her. But it’s twenty degrees outside... (sympathetic) You’re having a bad day, I’ll go with you...actually, there’s no way in hell you’re gettin’ me back out there... Jack looks at the dog’s face. Lucy couldn’t be more excited. Finally, Jack shakes his head and takes the leash. (heading up the stairs) Make sure you reward her verbally when she does a number two... The sound of Jack, wearing a down jacket, is being dragged down the street by Lucy, his breath condensing in the cold winter air. The dog sniffs at a hydrant and a couple of garbage cans, but isn’t doing her business. Figure it out...I’m s crewed...don’t have to be a genius to figure that out... The dog stops, sniffing at a manicured lawn... (to Lucy) It’s as good a place as any... But the dog keeps moving, pulling Jack with her. ...but obviously not up to your high standards... (to himself) Okay...he said you’re working on a new deal now...fine, you’ve done a thousand deals, what’s the first thing you do? Lucy’s sniffing around someone’s Christmas display but Jack’s too wrapped up in his thought process to notice. Triage. It’s your signature. You survey the damage, find out everything you can, you probe, leave nothing to chance. I’m just gonna have to go detective. How did you get Mentadent? You learned everything there was to know about toothpaste and then you pounced... Jack narrows his eyes, thinking about that deal... That’s our play here... Resolute, Jack turns to the dog. If you could take a dump some time in this century, then we could go home where it’s warm... Jack looks around at the unfamiliar houses... That is if can even remember how to get home... (to Lucy) You remember, don’t you girl? But the dog ignores him, dragging Jack along... Kate is in bed, fast asleep. Jack walks into the room, his face still red from the cold outside. He looks over at Kate, sleeping happily. He takes off his shirt and khakis, laying them neatly on the chair. He looks over at the pair of flannel pajamas folded on the dresser. He shakes his head, resigned, then dons the pajamas and climbs into bed... Morning light streams into the room. The clock reads, Jack opens his eyes – a burst of light hitting them from the window...like the morning light in his Manhattan loft... He reaches across the bed...it’s empty... smile of hope from Jack as he puts his head back on the pillow...maybe it was only a day...Then... The sound of a baby from the next room...A pained look on Jack’s face as he realizes he’s still in Jersey. Now the baby is WAILING...Jack lies still a moment, hoping it’ll stop...it doesn’t. Then, he hears the sound of the in the bathroom. He gets out of bed and walks to the bathroom... The shower is running, a tape player is “Beast of Burden.” Kate is in the shower with the song... Hello? No answer... (louder, over music) Hello! (singing) ...my feet are hurtin’... (yelling) Finally, the music is turned down and Kate pulls the shower curtain open... Jack sees her naked body...raises an eyebrow...that’s something he’s missed...then... Uh...that baby’s crying... (unimpressed) And...? ...her expression makes Jack turn his gaze from her naked body. Don’t give me that look, Jack, Tuesday’s your day and you know it. And try to get Josh to day care on time, okay? He missed the macaroni painting last week... She closes the curtain and turns the radio back up. Annie’s watching from a baby-size Laz-E-Boy lounger as... Jack, in a robe, stands in front of a changing table, Josh laying happily on his back, playing with a set of plastic keys. Jack takes a fresh Huggies diaper and puts it next to the baby. He surveys Josh, scratching his chin and rubbing his hands like Indiana Jones. Josh playfully grabs at Jack’s nose. He looks over to Annie. She’s still staring at him like he’s a Martian. He looks at the instructions on the box of Huggies. Pull tape... Jack searches the diaper for the tabs of tape, then gingerly pulls them apart, releasing the diaper from the baby’s bottom, and seeing what’s inside. Holy mother of god! Jack holds the diaper out away from him, searching for a place to put it. Annie points to a Diaper Genie by the dresser. Jack throws the diaper in, then quickly replaces the lid. Annie points to the container of Baby Wipes. You must be kidding... Annie stares at him a beat. Then... You’re not really our dad, are you? Jack turns to her. She’s looking back at him with complete earnestness. They stare at each other another moment. Then... No, I’m not. look of curiosity from Annie. work on Wall Street, you know with the big buildings...? No response from Annie... live in an apartment house with a doorman, can buy just about anything want... Annie nods at Jack, still suspicious. This isn’t my real life. It’s just a glimpse... Where’s my real dad? don’t know... concerned look on Annie’s face, Jack’s petrified that she’s about to cry. But don’t worry, he loves you and I’m sure he’ll be back very soon... (to himself) ...very, very soon... Annie approaches Jack, climbing up on a little chair and tugging firmly at his hair. They did a pretty good job. Who did? The aliens...In the mother ship. You look just like him. Uhh...thanks...slightly better looking though, right? Annie’s now stone faced, trying to decide about Jack. You’re not going to start crying, are you? Because I’m not really sure could deal with that right now. She thinks about it for a moment. Do you like kids? On a case by case basis... You know how to make chocolate milk? think could figure it out. You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains? Sure. Beat. Then...a smile from Annie. Welcome to earth. Jack’s driving, Annie buckled in the front seat... Josh, in the baby seat, looks like he was dressed by monkeys – his shirt buttons are off by one, and they’re clearly supposed to be in the back. Stop here... Jack stops the van outside the Playland Day Care Center. This is day care. It’s where babies go when their parents are at work. Check... He gets out of the van... ...he pulls Josh out and walks quickly toward the building, holding the baby away from his body. He gets to the door and holds Josh out to the She stares at Josh’s outfit... Do get a receipt or something...? The woman looks at Jack like he’s crazy. The mini-van pulls up to the drop-off point at this suburban New Jersey Annie opens the door. have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty. Five thirty. Okay. Try not to be late because kids don’t like to be the last one picked up. Got it. Good tip. Bye... Jack watches her as she runs toward the building. Then... (calling out window) Hey! Annie! Annie turns back toward him. Where do go now? Big Ed’s. Big Ed’s? Big Ed’s Tires? (suspicious) Why...? That’s where you work. beat. Then... You mean sell tires... She shrugs her shoulders and walks off. That’s what do. I’m a tire salesman... Jack’s driving down a busy commercial street when he spots something a hundred yards down the road... Good Lord... ...a huge, three-story-tall plastic likeness of Big Ed Reynolds, ten gallon hat, lassoing a tire... Jack approaches Big Ed’s from the parking lot...slowly, taking it all in... It’s like a Pep Boys with a Texas theme. big retail store for tires and auto parts, and a repair bay for everything from alignments to brake jobs... Jack walks to the tire bay where 40s, a Guatemalan mechanic in grease-stained coveralls, stands with the salesman. Hey Jack, you happen to know the stock number on those new Michelin X1's? Uh...lemme get back to you on that one... (looking at his name tag) Tommy... (to Tommy) Thomas, why you bother Jack about that. Look it up yourself... (to Jack) Okay Jack, we talk later... Jack nods amiably then continues into the store... Jack walks in...looks around...the store is teeming with activity, a post-holiday sale in progress... Big Ed, in his signature ten gallon hat, sees Jack from behind the counter... Jack my boy! You are looking mighty worse for the wear...Hey, guess who played bridge with two nights ago...? Jack stares blankly at Big Ed... Hell, you’ll never guess. One Sydney Potter. That’s Sydney Potter, Chief Executive Officer of BuyRite Transport. Only the third largest trucking company in the state. even let the sonuvabitch win, which wasn’t easy because the guy’s been bashed in the head by Teamsters so many times his brain’s like porridge. Anyhoo, he’s looking for a new parts supplier... we can handle that kind of volume, right? Jack considers this briefly. I’m gonna have to get back to you on that...Ed. Big Ed makes a gun gesture with his forefinger, winking at Jack, then turns back to the activity at the counter as... Jack spots a very young sales associate, walking by. He reaches out and taps Kenny on the shoulder. Do have a private office somewhere in the building? Uh...sure Jack... (nervously pointing) Right back there... Thank you. Jack walks into the office with his name on the door... There’s no Stairmaster here, no leather sofa or bar...it’s small, cramped and cluttered, the walls littered with tire inventory and price lists... Jack takes a slow, sad lap around the office. He makes it to the small wooden desk at the far end of the room and sits down behind it... On the desk are photos of Jack, Kate and the kids, a plastic Michelin Man model, a tire-themed day calendar and a small plastic figurine of a the word, “Bowlers Do It In An Alley” embossed on its base... He surveys the desktop briefly, then opens the top drawer, finding a personal checkbook and looking inside... He sees the bottom line and winces, then puts it back... Jack picks up the “Bowlers Do It In An Alley” figurine and gives it a good look... Bowlers do it in an alley?...Non profit lawyers do it for free... what is it with these people? Don’t they realize this refers to sex? He replaces the figurine then opens the bottom drawer where he spots a bottle of Glenfiddich. He lifts it out... At least you splurged on some decent scotch... He takes a paper cup and pours himself a shot. He drinks it down in one gulp and then crumples up the cup, throwing it toward the basketball hoop/garbage can near the door. He misses... He looks more closely at the photographs...most are family photos, a happy Jack with Kate, with Annie at the pony rides, at Josh’s birth...in every one of them, Jack is smiling... (to Jack in the photo) What are you smiling about...? He turns his head...spots a small plaque on the wall behind him. It reads, “Jack Campbell - Hutton #1 Junior Sales Associate, 1988.” Jack raises an eyebrow... Number one...not bad. He grabs it off the wall and looks at it more carefully... 1988...? was in London in 1988... Jack’s jarred into reality... (to Jack in the photo) You never went to London... (picking up the photo) ...you never got on that plane... He stays there a moment...in shock. Then... The system comes to life... (over Jack to mag wheels...Jack, you’re needed in mag wheels, customer waiting! Kenny leading Jack toward the “Mag Wheels” section. was the number one junior sales associate at Hutton in 1988. Did you know that? No, didn’t...that’s great. That’s the kind of thing you can really build on... Uh huh... mean sales has always been a feeder for and always... They approach “Mag Wheels” where a slick sales associate, stands with a looking at the displays... Here we are, mag wheels... (a little concerned) Hey Jack, are you sure you’re okay? Well, I’m just a little confused right now about why work here... Kenny looks at him nervously. Uh...I just started here last Tuesday. Jack nods compassionately. Kenny takes off leaving Jack alone with his thoughts as Tommy approaches with the customer. (to the customer) So you’re all set on the Skip Shift eliminator and the Brembo rotors. Jack’s our point man on alloy wheels... (turning to Tommy) Do you know why do work here...? Because you’re the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey... (proudly, to the customer) Jack taught me everything know about the business... The customer nods, impressed. taught you the business? Another nod to the customer. And he’s a crack-up. Everything taught you. want to hear it all, right now. Tommy’s confused. Hey, I’m ready to buy here... (to the customer) What do you want? want some alloy wheels. Jack grabs one of the alloy rims off the shelf, holding it out to the customer. Here. These are great. You’ll need four. The customer takes the wheel from Jack, looks at it confused... But don’t like these... Hey, you heard the guy, I’m the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey. (turning to Tommy) Everything. Okay... (hesitating) Rule number one, the customer is always right... satisfied smirk from the customer. Jack is behind his desk, his tie loosened, on the phone... (into phone) have no idea what our inventory level is, that’s why I’m asking you... at the door... Look, just send us what you sent us last month, okay...? And keep doing that until further notice... He hangs up the phone as the door opens. Big Ed sticks his head in... Got a minute, Jack? I’ve got all the time in the world... Big Ed walks in, followed by 60s, a tough looking man... Jack, meet Sydney Potter, BuyRite Transport, one of Jersey’s top businessmen... Potter extends a hand, Jack rises from his chair, trying to place the name. Then... ...and a helluva bridge player. Ed’s told me a lot about you... They shake hands. Potter nods his head at Jack, immediately impressed. Big Ed is beaming. (in a heavy Jersey accent) Lucky in cards, lucky in business, lucky in love. My cup runneth over... (to Big Ed) He’s a nice looking boy... My daughter’s no slouch either... smile from Potter, then a serious look. Let’s cut to the chase, Jack. Big Ed tells me you’re the grease that makes the wheels turn around here. need a new parts supplier for my fleet. You seem to have the parts. That we know. What we don’t know is why the hell should buy them from you. Potter stares Jack down. But Jack’s not about to be intimidated by him. He pauses, matching Potter’s stare. Then... have no idea... surprised look from Potter. An anxious laugh from Big Ed. (nervous) C’mon Jack... (to Potter) mean it. From what can tell, we’re a mom and pop operation, we’re already over-extended in sales, and any price advantage we could offer would easily be matched by a larger supplier... Jack continues to stare down Potter. So like said, don’t have any idea why you should buy your parts from us... The staring match continues. Big Ed’s getting more nervous. Potter’s the first to blink. Okay, you got my attention... Except for rule number one... Jack smiles. The customer is always right. cliché? Sure. The difference is, we mean it. We’re small, we need our customers. We can’t afford to disappoint them, ever. Yeah, you could go to some leviathan supplier, probably save a few pennies on the price of oil filters, but with us you get more than a supplier, you get a bridge partner... smile from Potter. Jack gives Ed a wink. Ed watches, thrilled... You want to bid hearts, we’re right there with you. You feel the need to redouble, you’re not going to get any argument from us... Potter nods at Jack. Jack moves in for the kill. The big guys may have the high cards, but you know as well as do, Sydney, high cards don’t always take the trick. Potter pauses a minute, then... (to Big Ed, re: Jack) like him... Big Ed smiles, letting out a relieved sigh. (a wink to Jack) That’s my boy... (an arm around Potter) C’mon, lemme show you the rest of the ranch... Big Ed and Potter exit the office... (turning back to Jack) Nice shootin’, Jack... ...leaving Jack there with a satisfied smile on his face. Jack is in bed watching CNBC...On the a young woman at the anchor’s desk... ...advancers led decliners by a nine to four ratio and the closing tick was a mildly bullish plus seventy six. Much of the market’s action today was fueled by the latest round of merger mania to hit Wall Street... The Global Health Systems and MedTech logos appear on a graphic in the corner of the screen... ...when Global Health Systems and MedTech Pharmaceutical announced their intentions to join forces in a massive one hundred and twenty two billion dollar stock swap deal. Though neither side expressed significant regulatory concerns at the announcement press conference, it is believed that both the and the will be closely scrutinizing the marriage, the largest ever in the health care industry. When asked about possible anti- competitive implications, Global Chairman Bob Thomas referred reporters to Lassiter and Company President Alan Mintz, the original architect behind the deal... Jack stares in shock as the image changes to a super confident looking Mintz shaking Bob Thomas’ hand at the press conference. Ironically, Mintz first met Thomas at a Lamaze class... Lamaze class...!? ...while coaching their pregnant wives, Mintz and homas struck up a dialogue about the need for consolidation in the rapidly growing health care industry and two months later, the deal with MedTech was born... What?! That’s my deal? In other business news, Labor Department officials announced today that two hundred and seventy-five thousand new jobs were created last month, twenty-five thousand less than economists were predicting, leading to a mild rally in the bond markets before midday. But as the trading session drew to a close, the profit takers stepped in and the long bond closed at ninety seven even, up only two ticks, the yield inching down to six point zero seven percent... Kate comes into the room from the hallway wearing only Jack’s sweatshirt... The kids are asleep... She goes over to the window and draws the blinds. Jack looks up at her, nods, then goes back to the Jack. said the kids are asleep... (distracted) Well that’s just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful... Kate shuts off the Hey! was watching that! thought we had a deal about you watching in bed. I’m working on a new deal now... Kate throws a Kate Bush’s “The Sensual World” into the player. Fine, but not tonight... She climbs onto the bed, a seductive look on her face. Wait a second. You want me, don’t you? That is the general idea, yes... Kate starts kissing him...but Jack’s a little uncomfortable with the sudden intimacy...he pulls back, a little nervous. Shouldn’t we grab some dinner first? Maybe a bottle of wine...? It’s ten thirty, Jack. By eleven you’re gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We don’t have time for wining and dining. Whatever you say...honey. She starts kissing him again...but this time he just goes with it, and as her hands run through his hair he’s brought back to a different time and place... Jack momentarily pulls back and looks at her...it’s like the first time he’s really looked at her in eleven years... God...you’re beautiful... She smiles at him, almost uncomfortable with the compliment... Thanks, Jack... No, I’m serious...you’re really stunning... This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming... mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, there’s no question about that. But this... (lost in her) ...you’ve really grown into a beautiful woman... Jack stares at her, entranced...Kate pulls back, reacting to the intensity in his stare... How can you do that? (nervous) Do what? Look at me like you haven’t seen me every day for the last twelve years... Jack freezes. There’s love in her eyes but it’s not meant for him... She kisses him... Don’t move. She gets up off the bed and heads for the bathroom... He looks around...not sure what to do...Finally... He turns onto his side and closes his eyes... Kate emerges from the bathroom, she sees Jack on the bed, hears his breathing heavy with sleep... At once charmed and disappointed, Kate sighs. She turns off the player and heads into bed. She pulls the covers up over Jack, shutting off the light... She puts an arm around him, kissing him sweetly on the neck... ‘night, honey... Close in on Jack’s face...turned away from Kate...he opens his eyes...looks down at her arm...loneliness on his face... It’s mid-January and all signs of the Christmas season are gone except for the snow on the ground in the busy parking lot. Kate, pushing Josh in the stroller and holding Annie’s hand, passing through the Men’s Dept., Jack lagging behind, a bevy of shopping bags in hand and a beleaguered look on his face. (back to Jack) We’re almost done here... Mary Janes, Mom. You promised. That’s right. Okay, let’s make a quick stop at the kids’ shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then I’ll run into the linen store... An unhappy look on Jack’s face. Why don’t we just go to all the stores?! Kate looks back at Jack. Every single store in this godforsaken shopping mall. We can go to them all. Kate gives him a look. Then... You know what, Jack?! I’ll go with the kids. Why don’t you just hang out here in the men’s department... okay? Jack glances at the Men’s Dept., sighs and gives Kate a nod. She takes off with the kids...and then he sees it... ...the Zegna section. He’s drawn to the neat rows of beautiful suits like a moth to the light... He approaches the rack, pulls out a dark green suit, gently touching the soft wool. It’s perfect for your frame... Jack turns and sees a standing behind him. Would you like to try it on? Jack, at a mirror wearing the Zegna suit. It is perfect for his frame. The color is spectacular, the line is dazzling. Jack looks in the mirror, shutting everything else out... it’s like he’s seeing his old self... You look amazing in that suit... Jack snaps out of his trance. He sees Kate standing behind him, Annie and Josh happily playing a few feet away. mean...wow...off the charts great. It’s an unbelievable thing. Wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. (taking one final look) I’m gonna buy it... Kate raises an eyebrow, then looks at the price tag. $2,400?! Are you out of your mind? (pointing to Annie’s new Mary Janes) She got those shoes... Those shoes were twenty five dollars. C’mon, take it off. We’ll go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like. Jack looks at her...it’s a moment of decision. No. Kate looks at Jack, a little surprised. No? Do you have any idea what my life is like? Excuse me? wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva...I drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail...retail, Kate. Kate just stands here, aghast... pick up the kids, walk the dog, which by the way, carries the added bonus of carting away her monstrous crap...I play with the kids, take out the garbage, get six hours of sleep if I’m lucky, and then it starts all over again...and why is it that always have to drive everyone everywhere? spend practically my entire day in that slow as hell mini-van listening to Raffi tapes and trying to figure out how the cup holders work...I’m sick of it. Really. What’s in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes? Kate stares at him, shaking her head... It’s sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, Jack. can’t believe it’s not a disappointment to you! (letting it all out) Jesus, Kate, could’ve been a thousand times the man became. How could you do this to me? How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?! Kate stares at him in disbelief. Then... Who are you? Kate’s words pierce Jack...he has to avert his eyes. (lowering his voice) Look, I’m sorry. I’m sorry was such a saint before and I’m such a prick now. Maybe I’m just not the same guy was when we got married... Maybe you’re not. The Jack Campbell married wouldn’t need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if that’s what it’s gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit ...we can take the money out of the kids’ college fund. They stare at each other for a moment...a stand-off... Forget it... (taking off the jacket) We’ll get a funnel cake. It’ll be the highlight of my week... The blue mini-van makes its way down this road... There’s an icy silence in the car...Jack is behind the wheel, Kate next to him looking out the window, anger on her face... Jack checks the rear-view mirror, sees Annie and Josh in the back, both asleep... (to Kate) Listen, I’m sorry about that back in the store. really don’t want to fight with you... Kate just keeps looking out the window. But you must sometimes wonder how we ended up here. mean back in college, did you see us... (looking around) ...here...? She turns to him. I’ll give you this, life has thrown us a few surprises... glimmer in Jack’s eye... It really has, hasn’t it? So if you had to...what would you say was the biggest surprise? She glances at the kids sleeping in the back. Well...Annie for one. Surprise. We’re pregnant... (a laugh) Yeah...that must’ve been...I mean that was very unexpected. But what are you gonna do, right? think it worked out okay, don’t you? Sure. really like Annie. Good, Jack. Maybe we’ll keep her. No, love Annie. We had a lot of good times, didn’t we? We were young... (a nostalgic smile) Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to? Charles Street? In the Village? When we were living in Greenwich Village...? (off her nod) Great times. Why’d we ever leave? You can’t really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village... Jack nods, starting to piece it together. The trek out to the hospital every day didn’t help either... (looking at him) You were great. Surviving the heart attack was one thing... You had a heart attack? (a laugh) Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you... (a sigh) ...who knows what would’ve happened if you hadn’t stepped in at the store. That’s why work for Big Ed? look from Kate. (recovering) mean, that’s why work for Big Ed... Jack looks out at the road a moment, piecing it all together in his mind. (almost to himself) So we had a baby, Big Ed had a heart attack, we b ought that house, and I’ve been working for him ever since...Sayonara, Wall Street. Kate looks at him a little strangely. (turning to her) Our life in a nutshell... If you want to look at it that way... How would you look at it? She glances again at the kids in the back seat, then at Jack. great success story... smile from Jack. He admires her outlook even if he can’t bring himself to share it. crowded suburban New Jersey bowling alley... Jack stands at a lane holding a bowling ball, the nickname “The Hammer” emblazoned over his bowling shirt pocket...He approaches the line and throws the ball down the lane... It’s ugly...The ball caroms off the hardwood into the gutter. Damn... from behind) Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for god’s sake! Jack turns. Arnie and the are in the scorekeeping area watching Jack make a mockery of the sport. Jack scowls. Where’s your follow through? Where’s your stance? Hey, I’m doing the best can... (under his breath) I’d like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers... You’re right. Why am so competitive!? Compensation, guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the spare... Jack retrieves his ball, sets up, genuinely concentrating... (quietly, to himself) You are Jack Campbell. You’re better than this sport. You shot the rapids at Kenai. You ran with the bulls at Pamplona. You jumped out of a plane over the Mojave Desert, for Christ’s sake. You can do this... Jack puts everything he has into the throw, heaving the ball down the lane with as much grace and power as he can muster...hitting the six pin and taking out four others. (screaming, excited) Yeah!! He turns, a fist pumped...But the guys could care less... (to Okay, Pete, you’re up. Jack walks out of the men’s room, heading toward the lounge. He sees a familiar face walking toward him...a woman in a sexy little bowling outfit, carrying a bowling ball to a far lane. Hi Jack... moment of confusion as he tries to place the face. Then... Evelyn, right? Very funny. saw you out there on lane five. What do you have the flu or something? Something like that. (with a wink) Need a nurse? You’re a nurse? Evelyn laughs. If that’s what you want... She brushes past Jack, continuing to her lane...Jack follows her with his eyes a moment, then... Wait a second... She turns. Are we...? Are we what, Jack? Is there something going on between us? Evelyn’s surprised at Jack’s directness. She stands there a beat, then walks back toward him. Are we finally being honest? It would help me if we were. Okay, you’re right, we’ve been dancing around this for years... Evelyn looks a little flush...she briefly fans her face. God, my heart is racing. Here goes... (a smile) When get dressed for a party and know you’re going to be there... well, let’s just say don’t go strapless because my husband likes it... An intrigued smile from Jack. I’ve got six sets of snow tires piled up in my garage and won’t even drive in the snow...And our kids just happen to be in the same ballet class every year? She picks a piece of lint off his shirt. So, if you’re asking me whether I’d like it to be more, the answer is yes... look of surprise from Jack. ...and Kate would never have to know. Jack considers this for a moment. Do have your number? wide smile from Evelyn. Steve’s out of town with the kids this week. Why don’t you just stop by... She turns, leaving Jack standing there, watching her sashay back to her lane. Jack walks into the lounge, a little dazed. He heads over to Arnie who’s having a beer at the bar. (looking at Jack) Hey Jack, you’re all flush. guess that seventy-one took a lot outta you. (sitting down) just saw Evelyn Thompson. She is relentless. She wants to have an affair with me. She said that? Pretty much. Oh yeah... (shaking his head) What is it about you? (pushing over a napkin) So could you write down her exact address? Whoa...whoa...wait a second, Jack. You’re not actually gonna cheat on Kate? It wouldn’t really be cheating... (off Arnie’s doubtful look) It’s complicated. Look, maybe I’m not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one. little flirtation’s harmless but you’re playing with fire here. The Fidelity Bank and Trust is a tough creditor. You make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account forever. I’m telling you, those rules don’t apply to me, Arn. (a chuckle) Screw the rules. I’m talking about the choice. Jack looks at him curiously. C’mon, Evelyn Thompson’s got no class. She doesn’t marry Dr. Steve, the woman’s living in a trailer. Hey, is that really necessary? All I’m saying it there isn’t a guy in Union County who wouldn’t give his left nut to be married to Kate... Arnie takes one last swig of his beer and gets up... I’ll see ya later, Jack... He leaves Jack alone, thinking... Jack walks into the house carrying his bowling bag. He dumps the bag in the coat closet and walks into the kitchen where... Kate is at the counter, her back to him, poring over some legal documents. (not looking up) How was the game, honey? (opening the fridge) Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy it... (peering inside) Hey, where’s that chocolate cake...? Kate turns around, revealing a huge hunk of chocolate cake on a plate in front of her, a bite ready to go into her mouth. (with a smile) You mean this chocolate cake? That’s my piece. was saving it because got nauseated from that store bought chicken. Kate takes the bite, a little piece of icing sticks to the side of her mouth. It’s good... Jack approaches the counter. Gimme that cake. She takes another bite. No way. He makes a grab for the plate but she holds it out where he can’t reach it. C’mon. Sorry, Jack. It’s too important to me. They stare each other down a moment. Then... He tries to swipe the plate. Kate jumps out of her chair, running out of the kitchen with the cake, laughing... Jack takes off after her...chasing her through the house... just about the catch up to her when... She darts up the stairs, still laughing...he follows her... want that cake! ...reaches up...grabs her shirt...pulls her down playfully on top of him... (laughing) You want the cake!? (out of breath) want it... She looks at him, then takes the whole piece in her hand and smooshes it right in his mouth... Beat. Then, Jack starts laughing... Thank you... It’s good, right? He takes a big clump of it and smooshes it in her mouth. They stay there a moment, lying on the stairs, feeding each other cake, laughing. Jack leans back on the stairs. He looks at Kate’s face, practically covered in cake, smiling, and realizes... ...he hasn’t laughed like this in thirteen years. Then... Are the kids asleep? sexy smile from Kate...they start kissing passionately right there on the steps...it’s heating up... (caught up in the moment) Say it, Jack... What...? C’mon, you know what like to hear... (in the throes of passion) Yeah, baby, know what you like to hear... (kissing him) Then say it...just say it to me...! (swept up in the moment) Oh yeah, you’re a bad girl, baby... You make me so hot...I’m gonna take you to that special place... Kate pulls away. What...? Jack looks up at her, he can practically see the passion drain from her face... Not it...? Nice, Jack. You’re sweeping me off my feet. What? You make me hot... She gets up and heads up the steps, disappearing into the bedroom...Jack shakes his head, frustrated. Then, he feels something licking at his hand... He looks down and sees Lucy standing next to him, wagging her tail, looking up at Jack with an “I’ve gotta go” look on her face. Jack heaves a sigh, then... C’mon, Lucy, maybe one of us can get a little relief tonight... He leads the dog toward the front door... Jack is walking Lucy. He passes a house that looks familiar to him. Then he sees it... ...the name etched on the mailbox... It’s the Thompson house, now sans the garish Christmas decorations, a drying Christmas tree tied up on the curb, ready to be picked up as garbage... Jack stops, pulling the dog back, looking up at the house... He sees a light on in the upstairs bedroom...the faint outline of a woman reading by the window... Jack looks around, sees the street is empty, then nudges the dog, leading her up the path to the house. He gets to the front door...moves his hand up to the doorbell...but it’s a tentative move...he keeps it there a moment, perched at the button...but for some reason he can’t bring himself to push it... He looks down the street, toward his own house, then to the window upstairs. Finally, he turns... (pulling the leash) C’mon, girl, let’s go home... The front door opens and Jack walks in with Lucy on a leash, his face red from the cold outside. He gives the dog a pat on the rump, then takes off his coat, hanging it and the leash on a hook by the door... He walks through the quiet house, into the living room, rubbing his hands together to warm them up. He goes over to a glass bar stand and pours himself a scotch, taking a sip, letting the alcohol warm him... He strolls through the room, looking at some of the family photos framed and hanging on the wall, focusing on his own face in the pictures, studying the expressions... He moves to a pile of video tapes sitting on a shelf, marked with titles like, “Trip to Yosemite, ‘96" and “Josh’s 1st Birthday.” He runs his fingers along the tapes, stopping at one marked, “Jack Singing.” His eyes linger there a moment... He puts his drink down and pops the tape in the It’s a party for Kate’s birthday thrown at the Kramers’ house...same crowd of people as the Christmas party, cheesy “Happy Birthday” decorations. The image jerks up and down, surveying the crowd... Bill Kramer at the piano, playing some light cocktail music ...Kate talking with a group of friends... Jesus, Bill, this thing is an antique. Don’t you even have image stabilization? Bill stops playing and looks up at Arnie. Four hundred bucks at Best Buy, Arn. Then...Jack comes into frame, a confident smile on his face. And everyone knows image stabilization is for the weak... Jack is jarred by the image of himself on the video... Jack on TV...he smiles as Kate walks into frame, easily putting an arm around Jack... So Jack, it’s your wife’s birthday, got anything to say to her? (to Kate) It’s your birthday? Today? What’s your name? Where were you born? Jack. Wait a minute. You’re my wife? She slaps him playfully on the arm... do have one thing wanna say... Kate looks at him expectantly. Then... (singing to her) Oh those fingers in my hair, that sly come hither stare, strips my conscience bare, it’s witchcraft... Jack doesn’t have the greatest voice in the world but he’s not the least bit self-conscious...and Kate seems to like it, there’s a twinkle in her eye...some of the guests focus their attention on Jack and Kate. Jack winces, embarrassed, as he watches himself sing... ...and I’ve got no defense for it, that heat is too intense for it, what good would common sense for it do... Bill Kramer still at the piano, chimes in with the basic chords for “Witchcract,” sounding it out as he goes along... ...‘Cause it’s witchcraft, wicked witchcraft...and although know it’s strictly taboo...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed in me, proceed with what you’re leadin’ me to... The camera catches the reactions of guests in the crowd... the women, smiles on their faces, wrapped up in the romance of the moment. Envy on the men’s faces as they watch Jack serenade his wife... musical interlude from Bill as Jack takes off his jacket...some and from the crowd...Arnie captures the image of Kate whistling at her husband... Arnie follows with the camera as Jack strolls in front of the gathered guests... It’s such an ancient pitch, but one that I’d never switch, there ain’t no nicer witch than you... Jack watches himself move gracefully. But it’s no longer embarrassment on his face, it’s fascination... Back in the video, the camera catches Evelyn Thompson watching longingly as Jack moves back toward Kate...Evelyn can’t take it anymore, she abruptly turns and walks toward the kitchen... Jack raises an eyebrow... In the video...Jack approaches Kate, she couldn’t have a more delighted look on her face. He picks up the verse... ‘Cause it’s witchcraft, that koo koo witchcraft...and although know it’s strictly taboo... The camera pans across the crowd, even the men are getting into it, focused on Jack as he sings lovingly, unashamed, to his wife...Nick Careli mouths the words along with Jack, almost as if he’s studying him, revering him... Jack watches the seeing Nick do this...maybe he underestimated his alter ego... On the video...Jack staring into Kate’s eyes... ...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed to me, proceed with what you’re leadin’ me to... Jack and Kate exchange a sexy smile... It’s such an ancient pitch, but one that I’d never switch... Jack kisses her on the lips...HOOTS and from the crowd. ‘Cause there’s no nicer witch than you... Kate brushes a hand across Jack’s face... Smash cut to Jack watching this...seeing the connection, the heat between them...coveting it... Back to the video...the music building...the crowd completely in the palm of Jack’s hand... ...than you... The camera closes in on Jack and Kate as the music builds to a crescendo... ...than you... little musical flourish from Bill as the crowd breaks out into huge and Jack, watching this other version of himself in the video, the center of attention, larger than life, focused on Kate... Back on video... (speaking quietly to Kate) Happy Birthday sweetheart...I love you. Kate leans over, giving Jack a deep kiss...OOHS and from the crowd...but Jack and Kate are in their own little world... Jack continues to watch himself on the video, his smile fading, becoming a look of realization...then loss... tear at the corner of his eye... The fades in Jack’s head as the action in the video continues... He’s left standing there...silent, still... Lucy licking Jack’s face. Jack pushes the dog away...as... The Kate pushes the button to stop it. (groggy) Time to get up, honey... Jack obliges without question, getting out of bed, putting on a robe and slippers and exiting, still practically half-asleep. Jack walks into the kitchen. He turns on the Mr. Coffee, gets a bottle from the fridge, throws it in the microwave, removes it, and heads upstairs. ...into Josh’s room. Josh is wide awake, standing up in his crib, like a prisoner in a cell. Jack gives him the bottle, pats his head perfunctorily, and then walks out of the room... ...and back into the bedroom to find Kate, sitting on the bed, a wrapped present in front of her and a wide smile on her face. Jack stops, raising an eyebrow at the gift. He looks behind, as if to ask whether it’s for him, then back to Kate. Happy Anniversary, honey... Terror on Jack’s face. (pushing the gift forward) Before you do whatever crazy stunt you’ve got planned want you to open mine... Jack musters up a smile, then approaches the gift. Maybe should wait... No, open it... He hesitates, then begins unwrapping the package, revealing... ...a suit, similar in color and style to the Zegna suit... found it at an outlet store. know it’s a knock-off, but think it’ll look great on you... (examining the label) Zeena... Jack is overcome with emotion...Yes, it’s a but this is probably the nicest thing anyone’s ever done for him... (tearing up) You really are incredible... Enjoy it, sweetheart... Jack looks at Kate’s expectant face, suddenly remembering how truly screwed he is. You’re probably expecting something from me... He’s sweating bullets...watching as Kate gets a quizzical look on her face... Here’s the thing. really hadn’t planned on giving you your...uh... anniversary gift until tonight. (an uncomfortable smile) You know, anniversary’s good all day... What are you talking about? You never wait all day. You can barely wait until it’s light out. know that, but... Beat. Kate looks at him like she’s looking into his soul. You forgot. Jack stands there, silent. You actually forgot our anniversary. I’ll fix it. I’ll go out right now and get you something. I’ll make it right. That didn’t help. (holding back the tears) Jesus, Jack...Is this where we are now? Is this our marriage? Suddenly I’m the wife who has to drop hints two weeks before her anniversary so her husband doesn’t fuck it up? Jack sees a tear run down her face...a pang of guilt on his... Please don’t cry... Kate wipes the tear away but they just keep coming. (shaking her head, crying) don’t want to be that, Jack... Jack approaches her, holding out a hand but Kate pushes it away, gets up and walks toward the bathroom... Jack is left standing alone, holding Kate’s gift... Jack emerges from the house, steps out onto the porch for some air... He shakes his head, a mixture of frustration and self- pity on his face. He notices Annie’s bike leaning against the side of the porch, and the bell that Cash gave him sitting on its handle bar. He takes a step toward it, and gives the bell a gentle ...he looks around, as if he’s expecting someone to appear ...but there’s no one. He the bell again, louder this time, really trying to attract someone’s attention. C’mon...c’mon... Nothing. Finally, he lifts the bike up in the air, the bell with everything he’s got... (shouting to the sky) C’mon, goddamnit, how was supposed to know the date of their anniversary!? never married her! Pull back...Annie in the doorway...looking at him. (slowly) Put the bicycle back on the ground... Jack turns and sees her, gently lowering the bicycle. Jack is mixing a glass of chocolate milk. Annie, arms folded, is waiting expectantly. He finishes, sliding the glass to her. She takes a long sip, puts the glass down, a chocolate milk mustache on her lip. Not bad...I shoulda warned you. Dad always does something really special for their anniversary. Like what? One year he had a solar system named after her... Don’t you think that’s a little gimmicky? Mom liked it. Jack raises an eyebrow. Maybe there’s a jewelry store back at the mall. could get her a pair of earrings or something. That’s good but...you did forget the anniversary. Right. That’s a major oversight... (thinking aloud) So if I’m Kate...I can’t really afford the finer things, my husband’s career is a crushing disappointment to me, I’m trapped in suburbia... Then... Did he ever take her to the City? Annie smiles, impressed. You’re really gettin’ the hang of this. Suddenly, a look of confidence comes over Jack’s face. For the first time, he seems like a man in control. Annie is sitting on the bed watching her mother get dressed. Kate, wearing a silky slip, walks out of her closet carrying two dresses on hangers, a red one and a sexy little black one. Kate holds out the two dresses to Annie. Which do you think? Annie thinks about it for a moment, taking it very seriously... The black one... Kate nods. She’s about to put it on when she looks at Annie... Fighting’s a part of it, Annie. You know that, right? I’m not worried, Mom. He’s still learning our ways... Kate looks at her with a raised eyebrow, then nods. It’s true. She puts down the dress and holds out a hand to Annie. C’mere. Kate leads her to the makeup table, then opens a lipstick... (excited) Really? Kate nods then applies some red lipstick to Annie’s lips. Now go like this... Kate rubs her lips together, showing Annie how to do it. Annie mimics her Mom, then Kate looks at her – Annie’s beaming. You’re gonna break a lot of hearts, you know. smile from Annie... Pull back to reveal...Jack standing at the door, watching ...appreciating the kind of mother Kate is... small, elegant French restaurant hidden on a tree- lined lower Manhattan street. Jack is wearing the suit Kate gave him. It’s not a Zegna, but he looks pretty damn good. He leads Kate toward the cloak room at this intimate restaurant... He helps her off with her coat. Kate’s wearing the sexy little black dress and we can immediately see its effectiveness... You look beautiful... charmed smile from Kate as she hands Jack her coat. Jack hands the coats over to the (instinctively) Thanks, Catherine... Jack fakes a trying to cover up...Kate gives him a pat on the back... You okay? He takes Kate by the arm... Fine... He leads her to the main room. She looks out at the room, elegant tables, French country decor, a playing Cole Porter... (quietly to Jack) Jack...can we afford all this? What’s the difference? I’m taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs... How do you even know about this place? Jack’s caught for a moment. Then... Arnie... (insistent) Arnie. He’ll throw you a curve ball once in a while, that’s for sure... Jack puts his arm around her and kisses her on the cheek... Jack and Kate sit at a secluded table, a standing next to them. Jack’s not even looking at the menu. We’ll have the tureen of quail breast with shiitake mushrooms to start, then the veal medallions in raspberry truffle sauce and the sea scallops with pureed artichoke hearts...sea scallops, North of the Caspian... Kate looks at Jack, a mixture of confusion and awe on her face. Very good, sir. And may say those are all excellent selections. You may... (perusing the wine list) Also, we’ll have a bottle of Lafite, 1982. Kate reaches over and pulls down the wine list, reading it upside down. It’s five hundred and fifty dollars, Jack! wince from Jack...for a moment there it was almost perfect. Just a glass of red wine for each of us... The waiter nods, then walks toward the kitchen... You are so not off the hook yet, slick. But I’m gettin’ close, right? noncommittal nod from Kate. Then Jack notices her look over at the pianist, drawn in by the music. You want to dance? puzzled look from Kate. There’s nobody else dancing. There isn’t even much room to dance... don’t think there’s dancing here, Jack. Jack gets up and holds out a hand. Sure there is... Kate looks around again, then she smiles. Kate rises, taking his hand. Jack takes her in his arms, swaying slowly in the limited amount of space, confident and self-assured. The pianist looks up, smiling, appreciating their role in this romantic moment. Kate moves with Jack, following his lead comfortably. They look good together...in sync with each other... People are watching them...some of the men are impressed, others are scoffing, but the women are clearly charmed... (whispering to Jack) Pretty good for a tire salesman from Jersey... Jack flashes her his most charming smile. have my moments... They continue to dance, in a world of their own... Jack and Kate at the table enjoying a gourmet meal. Jack holds out a fork with a piece of veal for Kate. She takes a bite. Mmmm... (spearing a scallop) ...here, try one of these... Jack takes a scallop from Kate’s fork. (savoring the scallop) God missed that taste... Kate laughs. Why are you laughing? Kate shoots him a look of curiosity. Jack looks back at her, sees the trust in her face...He puts down his fork. need to tell you something. Okay... think it may help us but there’s a slight chance it could make things worse. She hears the seriousness in his voice. Now I’m worried...just say it. Whatever it is we’ll deal with it. Are you sure? She nods. Jack searches his mind for the right words. Then... feel like I’m living someone else’s life... Jack looks to her, expecting the worst. But she just nods reassuringly. He continues... used to be so sure about everything, you know? knew exactly who was and what wanted. Then one morning woke up and suddenly it was all different... Worse, you mean... No. Well, maybe a few things. But mostly just different... Jack lets out a small smile. Now he’s the one who’s reassuring Kate. never used to be like this, Kate. had it all figured out. No doubts, no regrets. And now...? Now...I don’t... He looks at her, staring into her eyes, almost desperate for understanding. Me neither. raised eyebrow from Jack. think it’s good to be a little unsure about who you are. It’s very human. But you always seem so certain. C’mon, Jack, you think there aren’t mornings when wake up and wonder what the hell I’m doing in New Jersey... That’s a big one for me, too. My office is a dump, answer my own phone...and you’ve seen my pay check. Your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks. mean yes, help people that need it... guess...some of them are probably faking. (a laugh, then...) God, sometimes think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a player... He smiles, right there with her. Imagine having a life where everything was easy...where you asked for things and people just brought them to you... It’s wonderful... Kate laughs, nodding. pause, then... think about it, too, Jack. do. think about the kind of person I’d be if hadn’t married you... It’s as if she’s inside his head. They stay like this for a moment, looking into each other. And...? She stops a moment, considering. Then... And realize I’ve just erased the things in my life I’m most sure about. You, the kids... Jack nods. Good things... What are you sure about? Jack looks into Kate’s eyes. I’m sure that right now there’s nowhere I’d rather be than here with you... Kate smiles at Jack, a loving, secure smile. It’s been a while. The mini-van parked outside a small brownstone right on the square. It’s like something out of a Henry James novel... charming, meticulously maintained, elegant... The door opens and Jack, carrying Kate in his arms, enters... Jack puts Kate down and she takes in the room, antique furniture...it’s like walking into another world... This is so beautiful... Jack smiles as he opens a champagne bottle sitting on a silver ice bucket... You know champagne makes me do crazy things. (pouring) I’ll just full yours up to the top. (handing her a glass) Happy anniversary, sweetheart. Kate smiles, clinking her glass with Jack’s. don’t know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off. I’m out of the doghouse? Way out... Kate saunters into the bedroom, looking at the king- size poster bed, feeling the down quilt. Jack follows her... (turning to him) You may even get lucky tonight... Kate kisses him...when their lips separate, we can see the powerful effect it has on him. Jack looks deep into her eyes, stroking her hair, lost in her. You’re so...beautiful... already told you you were gonna get lucky, Jack... They kiss again, a long soulful kiss. Then... Jack pulls back, a look of realization on his face... My god, all this time...I never stopped loving you... (a wide smile) That’s all wanted to hear... She kisses him, their bodies intertwined...hands caressing ...more and more passionate...then reaches behind her to the light. The room goes dark... Morning sun streams onto Jack and Kate in bed... Kate, in Jack’s arms, her head on his chest, a contented smile on her face... Jack’s eyes open...adjust to the light. He looks over at Kate. There’s something different in his eyes...something deeper. Jack smiles...a broad, “I’m in love” kind of smile. Kate stirs, gently stroking Jack’s chest. Mmmm...Jack... Kate lifts her head, turning to face Jack. feel like should give you money... Jack laughs. mean, my god, Jack you were always good but this...this was... like a porno movie. Kate lays her head back on Jack’s chest, looking at Washington Square through the window. could stay here forever... don’t think I’d fight you on that one... Kate lifts her head and looks at him expectantly. They kiss. The mini-van passes a sign that reads, “Welcome to Teaneck.” Annie walking through the downstairs of the house, practicing her violin...it’s a noise bordering on but not quite... She walks into the kitchen where... Jack stands at the counter in his robe, reading the Newark Star Ledger and drinking a cup of coffee. He lowers the paper, watches Annie with a smile as she strolls through the room playing her violin badly...he goes back to his paper. Jack, still singing, donning his Dockers and short- sleeve oxford... The front door of the Campbell House... Jack emerges in his work clothes, putting his coat on, a bagel in his mouth... He disappears from frame, the screen door closing slowly behind him... In a moment...Kate appears at the door, a cup of coffee in her hand...she follows Jack with her eyes as he heads to the car. Then...a smile from Kate... In a moment...Jack returns to frame and heads straight into Kate’s arms... ...a passionate kiss as she leans against the door post... Have a good day... smile from Jack as she pats him on the ass and sends him on his way... Jack, pointing to a stack of radials, is standing with a (40s) wearing a pale blue leisure suit and a pair of high top Nike Air Jordans. For the money, they’re hands down the best radial we carry... (thinking, then...) Okay, I’ll take them... You won’t regret it... (shouting to Tommy) Tommy! Set Mr. Conlin up with four Goodrich G-Force T/A’s... (looking the man over) ...and give him ten percent off for having the best costume... Just then, a black pulls into the lot, its front left tire riding on the rim... (over system) Jack, Kate on line two! Jack pick up two! Jack turns toward the door, but then looks curiously back at the Rolls...something familiar about it... Then...Peter Lassiter gets out of the car... (walking out to Jack) Kate’s on two, Jack. (on seeing the Rolls) Nice ride... (staring at Lassiter) If you’re into that kind of conspicuous consumption... You want me to handle him? think I’m ready... (over system) Jack! Kate still holding on line two... Sure...be careful, he looks like a tough negotiator... Jack walks inside... ...but he’s still focused on Lassiter through the window, can’t take his eyes off him... He gets to the phone...sees the light for line two blinking ...he looks back outside, sees Kenny approach Lassiter... ...back to the blinking phone light...he picks up the phone... But can’t bring himself to hit the blinking light. Then... (to Estelle, into intercom) Tell Kate I’ll call her back... (into intercom) It sounded pretty important. (into intercom) I’m with a customer. I’ll call her back. He takes his hand away from the phone and walks back outside the store... ...towards Kenny and Lassiter. (to Kenny) seem to have had some kind of blow out... Jack approaches, tapping Kenny on the shoulder. Why don’t you let me take this one, Kenny? Okay, chief. Kenny nods then heads back inside... Peter Lassiter... (surprised) Do know you? Not exactly. I’ve seen you on (with a smile) You look taller in real life... Jack leaning back in his chair, behind the desk of his cluttered, cramped office. ...truth is, Mintz was so busy timing his wife’s breathing he didn’t see that MedTech needed Global more than the other way around. Ten days, two weeks tops, they would’ve approached you with an offer, and I’d bet anything it would’ve been thirty billion, not twenty nine... (a knowing smile) Problem was, Peter, you had a pussycat running the show. What you needed was a rottweiler. Lassiter, sitting on the little chair across from Jack, an intrigued look on his face... (nodding) Well, I’m impressed. smile from Jack. really am... Jack savors the moment, until... So, about my car... He’s jarred back to reality, a little crestfallen... Sure. We’re going to have to special order that tire. It’ll be ready in about two days. Lassiter nods, then takes a business card out of his wallet. This has my office address on it... (thinking, then...) Why don’t you drop it off yourself? smile from Jack. Kate, sound asleep in bed... Pan across to Jack, his eyes wide open, lost in thought... Jack wearing his Zeena suit, sitting behind his desk, distracted, as he listens to 40s, the say to her, Margarita, we already have four kids, why do we need more? Jack is shaking his leg anxiously under the desk as he eyes the door... But she say she want an even number. say four is an even number! But she say she want six. Jack checks his watch... tell her, Margarita, just got my green card, like to sit back and rest a little bit... (interrupting) Hector...do usually listen to your personal problems? Sure, Jack, all the time... Jack nods, then... Look, have some business that have to take care of in the city so I’m leaving early... (getting up) My advice to you...follow your dreams. Jack pulling up to the building in Lassiter’s Rolls... He gets out of the car, walks to the building, feeling good, confident, stopping to gaze up at the skyscraper...he breathes in deeply, then heads inside... Jack enters, instinctively tossing the car keys to the GUARD...the guard looks at him like he’s crazy... Jack and Lassiter walk together... ...we’re really more of a boutique operation, as you can see... But you’re not interested in boutique dollars... (a smile) get it... They walk into... Past the assistant’s desk... (seeing Lassiter) He’s expecting you, Mr. Lassiter... Lassiter doesn’t even slow down... It’s Jack’s old office but you wouldn’t know it from the decor...lots of country pine, a fabric sofa, and a play pen where the bar used to be. Jack enters, immediately struck by the difference... (to Mintz) Alan, this is Jack Campbell...the one was telling you about... Mintz, a confident look on his face, gets up from the desk and goes to shake Jack’s hand. Jack, of course. They shake hands. (appropriately deferential) Mr. Mintz. Please, call me Alan. We try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here... (re: play pen) can see that, Alan. chuckle from Mintz. You have kids, Jack? (hesitating, then...) Uh...actually, yes. Two... good ones. Another laugh from Mintz. That’s great... (gesturing to the sofa) Why don’t you have a seat? Jack nods, sits down on the plush sofa, Mintz and Lassiter take the chairs. So, Peter mentioned that you were an avid watcher but didn’t say whether you had any actual Wall Street experience? Jack’s a little taken aback by the question, not realizing he was walking into an interview... He crosses his legs, trying to get comfortable. was a sales associate, at Hutton. broker? Really. And now you’re in the tire business? That’s right. And auto supply... Uh huh. The retail end, understand. Jack nods... Uh...we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive service. Mind if ask what kind of sales you did last year? Ballpark... We did one point seven million in total revenue... Uh huh...one point seven. And what do you project for this year? Jack pauses, analyzing the situation...the patronizing questions, the smirk on Mintz’s face... Any thoughts at all on that? As Jack stares into their faces, he realizes the extent of his handicap... Jack? He stops, takes a moment, looking at Mintz and Lassiter then ...a confident smile. Well, Alan, think we’re gonna have a banner year. Sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account. Really. So you’re projecting what, a tad over two million? gleam in Jack’s eye. That’s right. And that would make us number one in our market... (getting up) You mind if stand? raised eyebrow from Mintz. Mintz and Lassiter follow Jack with their eyes as he crosses the room to the desk, pours himself a glass of water... Look, know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year. And know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar merger... I’m not trying to knock the tire business, Jack. (a confident chuckle) It’s okay, Alan. get it. I’m in your shoes, I’m thinking exactly the same thing...but here’s the thing. Business is business. Wall Street, Main Street, it’s all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the hell they’re gonna send their kids to college. It’s just people... Jack’s confidence is throwing Mintz off, but Lassiter appears intrigued... And know people. I’m sure you do... (intervening) Let’s let the man have his say... Mintz covers his embarrassment with a smile... (to Mintz) Take you, for instance... (defensive) What about me? You drink about sixteen Diet Cokes a day. You’re an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. You drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch... Jack looks around the office then back to Mintz. And your wife decorated this office... laugh from Lassiter as Mintz sits there stewing, a caught look on his face. He certainly has your number, Alan. (turning to Lassiter) You’re a little tougher, Peter. raised eyebrow from Lassiter, but he’s game... For one thing, you like expensive things. (smiling proudly) That’s easy. You’ve seen my car. (a chuckle) Okay...you smoke Hoyo de Monterreys. You’re a scotch man, single malt, not because it’s trendy but because you’ve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. You have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. You wept openly the day the Dow hit ten thousand... Lassiter’s impressed. And you’re a man who prides himself on finding talent in unusual places... Oh? And how would you know that? Jack smiles. Because I’m here. On Lassiter...nodding his head. Mintz, a plastered-on smile. I’m prepared to do anything it takes to get this job. Start anywhere you need me to start. I’ll park cars if to... (into Lassiter’s eyes) The biggest part of judging character is knowing yourself. And know this, can do this job. Give me a chance, Peter, won’t let you down. Lassiter returns Jack’s gaze with equal intensity. In a moment, he turns to Mintz. (to Mintz) Alan, why don’t you show Jack around a bit... I’d love to. Jack and Alan walking side by side down the hallway... passing them by, greeting Mintz, Mintz waving back... (pointing) ...that’s our war room. We did seven major deals last year, three of them hostile. (not particularly impressed) Seven. Really. They turn a corner, coming into a deserted section of the corridor. Mintz stops, turning to Jack. Jack returns Mintz’s gaze with a quizzical look. Let’s cut the shit, huh Campbell? What, did you go through his wallet or something? Jack’s a little taken aback. No matter. That circus act back there may have dazzled Lassiter momentarily but it doesn’t do shit forme. Even if you get this job, which highly doubt, let me warn you, Lassiter loses interest in his pet projects very quickly. I’m in the big office because I’ve proved myself to him year after year and nobody is going to come in here and start turning the old man’s head. Especially not some tire salesman from New Jersey. So you watch yourself and stay away from Lassiter, and maybe, just maybe, I’ll keep you on after he gets tired of you. Do we understand each other? Jack stands there, staring at Mintz, silent, expressionless. Do we?! Then, a broad smile from Jack. God, you really are different, aren’t you... (nodding) mean...wow...I am impressed. Now it’s Mintz’s turn to look quizzical. Good for you. Why shouldn’t you protect what’s yours. don’t think you’re hearing me. Oh, I’m hearing you, Alan. That’s not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine. And don’t care how low on the totem pole start, will get it back... (poking him in the chest) So do yourself a favor and don’t get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office. Jack smiles at Alan one more time, then turns... Oh, and by the way, you try selling tires for a living. promise you, you’d starve. Jack heads down the corridor, whistling a happy tune, leaving Mintz standing there, bewildered. double door opens and Jack leads Kate into this huge duplex. Kate looks around, taking the place in. Welcome to Xanadu... The place is incredible...marble floors, architectural lines, high tech fixtures, elegant modern furniture... it’s striking but not at all homey like the Jersey house. Pretty incredible, isn’t it? It’s like a museum. Jack nods. (turning to Jack) So what’s the big surprise? You didn’t rent this place for the weekend, did you? Think bigger. For the week? Jack chuckles. This place is a perk, Kate. perk for what? company called Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new executives... Kate’s confused. You’re talking to their new Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions. What are you talking about, Jack? I’m going into arbitrage, honey. Turns out have a knack for it. I’ll be making two hundred grand a year plus a hefty bonus and that’s just to start. And, we can live in this apartment practically rent free for as long as we want. Jack measures her reaction. It’s not good... We can finally afford to move back into the city. In style. Kate just looks at him, in shock. Then... Are you out of your mind? don’t think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey. We’ll put Annie and Josh in private schools... Annie goes to a great school. I’m talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate... Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job? This is New York City, it’s like the needy people capital of the world. Those Jersey clients of yours aren’t a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here... (cutting him off) can’t believe you want to move back into the city. thought the reason we left was because we didn’t want to raise the kids here? No, this is the center of the universe. If were living in Roman times, would live in Rome, where else? Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon. (cutting him off) Jack. Jack’s starting to struggle... Look, I’m detecting a kind of funky tension here...We don’t have to live in this apartment. don’t need this...I’ll commute...I’ll drive to work... Jack’s back on his heels...seeing his dream picked apart... In traffic? It’s over an hour each way? That’s almost three hours a day. When are you going to see the kids? He’s frustrated...he pauses a moment to gather himself. Then... Kate. You’re not understanding me. I’m talking about a great life. perfect life. Everything we pictured when we were young. The whole package. You said it yourself, life has thrown us surprises, and so we made sacrifices. But now can finally get us back on track... sad chuckle from Kate. can do that. want to do that. For all of us. need to do that as a man... (imploring her) Think about it. No more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow... Then get a goddamn snow blower! Jack’s taken aback by the intensity of her tone. Don’t get a new career without even telling me. Don’t take Annie out of a school she loves. Don’t move us out of a house we’ve become a family in... Kate stands there, wounded... (quietly) Don’t do that... Look, you’re making this into something it’s not. This isn’t a referendum on our lives, Kate. It’s a step forward... (appealing to her) Don’t you see? I’m talking about us finally having a life other people envy. Silence. Kate looks him in the eye – a deep, piercing look... They already do envy us, Jack... Kate picks up her bag and walks out of the apartment. Annie is in a nightgown, practicing her violin. Jack walks in. It’s all he can do to hold back cringing at the missed notes. Annie finishes the piece, lowering the bow. Very nice. What is it? Mary Had Little Lamb. Ah. classic... Annie starts again as Jack looks at the dresser. She has 20 or so family photos lined up and down its sides... Jack studies them...in every one Jack’s face is totally contented. Jack studies them, looking at his own face. Annie lowers the bow, watching him... Jack turns to her. Please don’t stop... She smiles, then starts again. He turns back to the pictures... Jack...standing in front of the desk, nursing a drink. He looks at Lassiter’s business card, sitting on the surface of the desk... He gazes around the room...his eyes coming to rest on a bookshelf...a book... He moves toward it...looking at its spine...it’s a tattered copy of Vonnegut’s “Cat’s Cradle.” He pulls it off the shelf, there’s something inside...a bookmark... ...a ticket jacket sleeve... ...inside...a boarding pass...”From: London/Heathrow, To: New York/JFK, 10/4/87.” He looks at it...something’s not right... From London to New York...? (looking up) came back... Then...a Jack turns and sees Kate walking into the doorway, standing there...She sees Jack holding the Pan Am ticket sleeve. Our finest moment, right... quizzical look from Jack. When you got on that plane was sure it was over. left the airport afraid I’d never see you again. And then you showed up the very next day... (a wistful smile) That was a good surprise... She continues into the room, leaning against a bookshelf. think about you on that plane, about what must have been going through your mind...you sitting there imagining our life together, our life apart...I think about the decision you made... Jack watches her as she lets out a small sigh. Maybe was being naive but believed we’d grow old together in this house. That we’d spend holidays here, have g randchildren visit us here. had this image of us all grey and wrinkly, me working in the garden, you repainting the deck... Kate smiles gently as she pictures this. Things change, right? People change... (pausing) If you need this, Jack, mean really need this, will take these children from a life they love, and take myself from the only home we’ve ever shared, and move wherever you need to go. I’ll do that because love you... The words are like a warm embrace for Jack... love you, Jack. And that’s more important to me than our address... Kate smiles lovingly at Jack...she walks over to him, kisses him gently on the forehead. choose us. She turns and heads out of the room, leaving him there, the boarding pass still in hand, staring lovingly at her as she goes... Jack walks into the room... The lights are off, Kate already in bed sleeping. He undresses for bed, unable to take his eyes off Kate. Finally, he lifts the covers and climbs into bed next to her, moving closer to her, putting an arm around her, drawing her in... In her sleep, Kate nestles in Jack’s embrace. He savors the feeling, then closes his eyes as... They lay there...side by side...together...a single person. The morning light streams into the room. Kate opens her eyes. Jack’s not in bed. look of curiosity. Then, she hears from outside. She goes over to the window...opens the blinds... revealing... Jack in the backyard, with joy, playing in the snow with Annie and Josh. Kate watches...a satisfied smile sweeping across her face... ...Jack reaches out and snags Annie...she in delight... The three of them fall over onto the soft white snow... The laughter from the kids is uncontrollable, Jack’s joy is just as palpable... Finally, Annie stops laughing and grabs Jack around the neck, hugging his tight. (whispering in Jack’s ear) knew you’d come back... Jack walks over to a utility shelf, fishing around until he finds a bag of rock salt...he grabs it, sees it’s empty... And then he hears it...the sound of a echoing through the room. shudder passes through his body... He turns and sees Annie at the open garage door, sitting on her bike, ringing the It’s an eerie moment for Jack... What are you doing? (a curious look) Ringing my bell... On Jack’s anxious face... On Jack...crouched down in an aisle of this local convenience store...checking out the bags of rock salt... He looks at the price tag on one of the bags... Four ninety nine?! It’s just salt for god’s sake... On the entrance to the store...the door opens, a 17, enters, an average suburban teenager... She glances at a fashion magazine, picks up a package of gum... From the of the cashier, we see the girl approach the counter... On Jack, crouched down in the aisle. He grabs a bag of salt from the shelf, when... That’ll be sixty five cents, little angel... Jack registers the voice...he rises slowly, looking over to the front counter...where he sees... Cash, dressed in a typical chain convenience store uniform, ringing up the teenager... An excited smile from Jack at the sight of Cash... You...! Then...the color drains from Jack’s face... What are you doing here... Jack moves toward Cash at the counter... You’re not sending me back... The girl eyes Jack curiously, then removes a dollar bill from her pocket and slides it across the counter to Cash... Jack, it’s good to see you... Cash reaches into the register, taking out change for ten dollars...he hands the girl $9.35... (to the girl) Thank you darlin’... The girl looks at the money, realizing that Cash has given her the wrong change... (back to Jack, seeing the rock salt) What do you got there, rock salt? Look at you, all domestic and shit... You really figured some things out, huh? The girl looks at Cash talking to Jack... I’m not going back... The girl hesitates...Cash turns to her... (to the girl) Everything okay...? She looks at him, a moment of decision, then... Yeah...fine. (raising his voice) Hey! Did you hear me...?! Cash ignores Jack, watching the girl as she heads to the door, hesitates a moment, then walks out... look of disappointment on Cash’s face as he reaches into his pocket, pulling out a little notebook... Cash looks at Jack. (making a note in his book) That was a character issue... (shaking his head) ...and for nine dollars? That’s just sad... Hey, I’m talking to you! am not going back, do you understand...?! Cash looks at him, compassion on his face. You can’t do this. You can’t keep coming in and out of people’s lives, messing things up... C’mon, Jack... Jack throws six bucks on the counter... I’ve got kids, I’m going home... You know what the word glimpse means, It’s by nature an impermanent thing. Jack walks determinedly toward the exit. He stops and turns at the door... (pointing at Cash) I’m staying. Cash follows him with his eyes, a proud look on Cash’s face as Jack leaves... Jack walks to Josh. He’s sleeping soundly. Jack gently kisses Josh on the head, careful not to wake him. Jack is standing over Annie, kissing her on the cheek. (stirring, groggy) Is it morning yet? No, honey. Go back to sleep. She closes her eyes as Jack stands there for a moment looking at her, sadness all over his face. Take care of yourself, Annie. I’m going back to the mother ship... Finally, he turns to go... The clock reads, “11:17.” Kate is already in bed as Jack walks in. (looking up from her book) Hey... Jack approaches her, sitting on the bed... These last weeks, Kate, know that I’ve done some...some unusual things. Kate nods. It’s been interesting, that’s for sure. But I’ve done some good things too, haven’t You’ve been Jack Campbell. And that’s always a good thing... She kisses him on the cheek. He takes her arms in his hands and looks her in the eyes. need you to remember me, Kate. How am right now, right this very moment. need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what happens. Are you okay, Jack? Please, just promise me you’ll do that. You have to promise, Kate. Because if you don’t, then it’s like it never happened and don’t think could live with that. She’s a bit confused but she couldn’t be more in love with him. promise, Jack... Promise me again... promise. Come to bed, honey. Jack stands up, heading toward the door. Soon... Snow begins to fall... Jack with Lucy on a leash, walking side by side, his mind elsewhere... Lucy leads him around a corner...to a large open field... Lucy stops. She looks back at Jack, then out to the open field. Jack removes the leash. The dog bounds happily out into the field, looking for just the right spot. Jack puts his hands in his coat pocket...pulls out a half-eaten roll of puts one in his mouth... He looks up at the sky, snow gently falling onto his face. It’s cold, but it’s beautiful...peaceful and still...the air clean and crisp... He breathes in the fresh air, the Lifesaver dissolving in his mouth, watching the dog... The room is dark... Jack enters, sees Kate sleeping soundly in bed. He sits down in a chair and watches Kate asleep, a sad look in his eyes... As he continues to watch her, to listen to her, his own eyelids appear to grow heavy... He tries to fight the sleep...opening his eyes... focusing on her...but it’s no use... Finally, he closes his eyes...falling into a deep sleep... Jack, flat on his back in bed...Light streams onto his face ...he stirs... Jack reaches over to Kate’s side...there’s no one there. Pull back to reveal...his old Manhattan apartment... his old dressy clothes strewn on the floor... Jack, sleep still in his eyes, reaches over...he’s not wearing any pajamas...picks up the phone... (groggy, dazed) Yeah...okay, send her up... He drops the phone...turns back over...let’s his eyes stay closed for another moment...then... His eyes open... He looks around...sees his shirtless torso...then his old apartment...tailored clothes on the floor. (sadly) Damnit. Jack looks at the clock, “9:23 a.m.” He gets out of bed, throwing on pants and a pair of shoes, and leaves the room... ...Jack walks to the door just as... The doorbell He stops, then cautiously opens the door, seeing... wearing a long overcoat and a wide smile on her face. Waiting for me by the door, huh? Jack looks at her. Paula... Paula opens her coat – the only thing she has on underneath is a sexy little teddy. (momentarily distracted) That’s totally see through... (smiling) Merry Christmas... (confused) Christmas? It can’t be Christmas... Jack stares at her, totally confused... (lasciviously) It’s whatever you want it to be, Jack... Jack grabs a leather jacket then walks right by a shocked Paula and heads out the door, practically running down the corridor. Jack?...Jack! Jack’s Ferrari speeds down the bridge, toward Jersey... Jack’s Ferrari pulls up in the driveway and he hops out. He races to the front door, on it... in a Van Heusen shirt and Hagar slacks answers. Jack stares at him in shock. Can help you? Is Kate here? Does Kate live here?! Kate? No, there’s no one here named Kate. Is that good enough for you? Jack starts rapping his head against the door post, much to the shock of the guy standing there. Damn...damn...damn... Hey, are you okay? No...I’m not... Is there anything can do for you? Jack shakes his head mournfully. Hey, my wife’s in the kitchen. You got a cigarette? I’m sorry, no... Jack walks off, beleaguered... Jack’s car drives by as Arnie carries a bicycle box out to the garbage. The car screeches to a halt in front of the driveway. (shouting at Jack) Hey, you can’t park that thing here. (out the window) It’s me, Jack... don’t care if you’re Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still can’t park here. Tell me you recognize me, Arnie. Please... How’d you know my name? We bowl together. We’re bowlers ...we won a championship...we’re winners. never won anything in bowling. Arnie peers at Jack through the window. Wait a second... (thinking) Jack...Jack... Yes...Jack Campbell... Of course. Jack Campbell. went to high school with you...you played baseball, right? (at the Ferrari) You’re doing well... (remembering) Yes, that’s it...yes, we went to high school together. You never really talked to me. wanted to talk to you, man... Yeah...I guess just wanted you to know, we could’ve been really good friends... Jack driving...a curious look on Jack’s face, it’s been a while since he’s heard that sound. (answering phone) Hello? Hey Santa, where are you? Everybody’s here. Adelle? You were supposed to be here half an hour ago...the emergency strategy session? Your trip to Aspen? They’re all panicked here... Silence from Jack... Jack...? Are you going through the tunnel? Finally, Jack shakes his head, defeated. I’ll be there in twenty minutes... It’s a beehive of activity... Jack’s anxiously going over reports and flow charts, working the phones, drinking coffee... Jack enters, still reeling from his experience, taking a moment to observe the action... Mintz spots him... (into phone) Thank god, Jack’s here. I’ll call you right back... He hangs up the phone as all eyes in the room turn to Jack, immediately fixating on how disheveled he looks. (approaching) Jack, are you okay? (in a daze) What’s going on here? It’s not good. Bob Thomas has secretly been talking to a European drug company. We’re not sure which one, Julia’s on it right now. Word is they’re willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company. The Global people are up in arms. They say we should’ve been prepared for this. We’re in trouble here, Jack... Jack looks at Alan for a minute. You know something, Alan. There’s a much more assertive person somewhere inside of you... Alan looks at him, confused. Excuse me? But think like you better this way... Is this another one of those Sun Tzu “Art of War” tricks? sad laugh from Jack. No. So what are we gonna do, Jack? Jack wallows for another moment in his own sadness... Jack...? Jack snaps out of it, turning to Alan and the rest of the group... I’ll tell you exactly what we’re going to do. You’re going to do whatever you have to do to find out which European company he’s been talking to. Then I’m going to clean myself up, fly to Aspen, and drink egg nog with Bob Thomas. His wife and kids will be playing in the background while spend Christmas day convincing him that the European company is the devil and Global is the answer to his prayers, after all... (growing wistful) Then I’m going to spend four hours skiing. Alone. On Christmas day. Completely and utterly alone. I’m going to do that because that is my life, that is what’s real, and there is nothing can do to change that... Jack leaves the office to the shocked stares of his team. Jack’s limo makes its way downtown. Jack in the back seat of the limo, sadly looking out the window, watching the buildings pass by... He turns away, looks at the phone...haltingly picks it up... (dialing 411) For Manhattan...Kate Reynolds...I need an address too... Jack jots something down on a business card. Then he hangs up the phone, thinks a moment, looks out the window, then turns to the driver... Make a right here... But the airport’s the other way... We’re not going to the airport... Jack’s limo pulls up outside this house on Washington Mews... Jack gets out... Jack stands outside an apartment door. He hears The Clash’s “London Calling” from inside. He rings the bell...the volume of the music gets lower... Kate’s assistant, 20s, opens the door...Jack exchanges a curious look with her. Are you from the shipping company? I’m Jack Campbell...I’m an old... friend of Kate’s. just called. The woman looks at him, then walks back inside... Kate! Some guy’s here! Beat. Jack waits anxiously at the door. Then... (to Lori) Did you call the airline like asked?! Jack’s eyes come alive as Kate appears wearing jeans and a white blouse...except for her hair, she looks the same. Kate... Jack...God, it’s been so long...You look... She searches for a kind word, but he looks terrible. You look great. It’s good to see you... She looks at him another moment, then turns... (yelling inside) Lori! Where’s that box?! Kate walks inside, Jack follows her in sheepishly. ...Jack accidentally knocks into a stack of boxes, sending a to the floor, it... (bending down) I'm sorry... Don’t worry about it, Jack... Jack looks up at...a beehive of activity – Lori on the phone, boxes stacked everywhere, packing up... What’s going on? (searching around) I’m moving to Paris...it was right here... (to Lori) It’s a box marked “Jack.” put it in the stack for the Salvation Army... Paris? (to Kate, with attitude) Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline? Hey, kind of under a little pressure here. Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my ex-boss here. Jack watches this back and forth. You didn’t seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag gave you. Maybe it’s by the wardrobe boxes... Kate heads over to some tall wardrobe boxes. You’re moving... Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and I’m going to be heading it up. (stunned) To Paris. Paris, France. (searching the boxes) That’s the one... So you’re not at a non- profit firm? (a chuckle) Not with what they pay me... You’re not married, are you? No, Jack, never got married. You? Not exactly... (looking around) Can we just take a minute here? Maybe get a cup of coffee or something...? (yelling) I’ll go for a cup of coffee! Yes! relieved smile from Jack... found it! Congratulations. The La Guardia flight’s canceled but got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am good or what? Jack’s smile disappears as Kate hands him a sealed box marked, “Jack”... Here you go. It’s just some old things of yours... Jack stands here, looking at the box, then at Kate... Do you ever think about us, Kate? About what might have happened...? bemused from Kate. Then she sees he’s not laughing... You’re serious... nod from Jack... I’ll tell you what, Jack, if you’re ever in Paris, look me up. Maybe we’ll go for that cup of coffee. One of the movers passes by Jack carrying a box... Jack looks at Kate, flush with the realization that this isn’t the same woman he knew thirteen years ago, or left yesterday. Sure. Goodbye, Kate. He leaves... scratchy Zeppelin album, the song “All Of My Love,” fills the room. Jack, a fifth of Bushmill’s by his side, goes through the box Kate gave him. He removes a worn leather jacket, feeling the soft material, then a “Mondale for President” button, which Jack smiles upon seeing, a couple Neil Young concert ticket stubs... He puts the leather jacket on, then sticks the Mondale button on the lapel. He digs back into the box, finding... messy, dog-eared copy of “Cat’s Cradle”...not the one Kate gave him at the airport, the one she replaced... Jack looks at it for a moment...lost in his sadness... then... He looks over at the clock, it reads, “8:29.” Jack in his Ferrari, racing down the highway at 120 He looks at the clock, it reads, “8:46.” He opens up the throttle... Snow is falling as Jack’s car races up to the terminal then stops. He jumps out. An sees him... Hey, you can’t leave that there! Jack runs into the terminal, ignoring the guard... Jack looking at the board. The nine o’clock to Paris - Gate Jack sprints toward the gate... ...and gets there just as the flight is boarding. Jack looks through the crowd, spotting Kate near the front of the line, about to hand her ticket to the gate attendant. He pushes through the throng of people, drawing some annoyed stares, finally making his way over to Kate. (calling out) Kate! Kate turns and sees Jack, a look of puzzlement on her face. You can’t go! Jesus, Jack... Don’t get on that plane! Jack. Please. Let’s just go have a cup of coffee. That’s all I’m asking for. I’m sure there’s another flight to Paris tonight. What do you want from me? You want me to tell you everything that happened was okay? Jack just stands there, unsure... Well it is. Yes, was heartbroken ...But got over it. moved on. People change, Jack. changed. don’t know why you suddenly feel the need to revisit that time in our lives but assure you, it’s over... Kate turns her back to Jack, leaving him standing there... He watches her walk to the podium, realizing she’s right... He sees Kate reach the podium...hand her ticket to the attendant... Finally, a look of determination crosses his face... (at Kate) We have a house in Jersey! Kate turns to him with a look that could kill. Don’t do this, Jack... But he continues... We have two kids, Annie and Josh... ...Kate looks at him, half-mortified, half- interested... ...Annie’s not much of a violin player but she tries really hard. She’s a little precocious but that’s only because she says what’s on her mind. And when she smiles... Jack shakes his head, remembering, fighting back the tears... And Josh...he has your eyes. He doesn’t say much but we know he’s smart... (lost in the memory) ...he’s always got his eyes open, always watching us... sometimes you can look at him and just know that he’s learning something new... it’s like witnessing a miracle... Kate’s expression has sifted from annoyance to curiosity. ...the house is a mess, but it’s ours... (chuckling) ...well, after a hundred twenty two more payments it will be... Jack begins walking slowly toward Kate...the world of the airport going on around him, Jack not caring... And you...you’re a non- profit lawyer. That’s right, completely non-profit. But that doesn’t seem to bother you... Kate raises an eyebrow. It’s something she’s thought about. And we’re in love. After thirteen years of marriage we’re still unbelievably in love... (with a chuckle) You won’t even let me touch you until I’ve said it... Jack gets closer and closer...Kate’s spellbound now... imagining the picture Jack’s painting... sing to you...not all the time but definitely on special occasions... Jack walks into a piece of carry-on luggage sitting by a row of passengers... (off hand, to passenger) Excuse me... (to Kate) We made a lot of sacrifices, dealt with our share of surprises, but we stayed together... Jack’s nearly there... You see, you’re a better person than am... Not in this life, and Kate knows it... ...and it made me a better person to be around you... Kate is perfectly still, Jack’s words echoing in her ears. Maybe it was all a dream. Maybe went to bed one lonely night in December and imagined it all. But swear, nothing’s ever felt more real to me... He’s right in front of her. She can’t take her eyes off him. And if you get on that plane right now, it’ll disappear forever. Silence. Jack and Kate in their own little world...airport business going on around them... know we can both go on with our lives. And we’d both be fine. But I’ve seen what we can be like together...And choose us... Jack’s words resonate in her ears. He gently touches a hand to her arm... Please, Kate, one cup of coffee. You can always go to Paris. Just please, not tonight... She stands there, frozen, staring into Jack’s eyes, searching for the answer. Okay, Jack... Jack and Kate, framed in the window of a nearly empty airport coffee shop...through the window, we see snow falling outside. From a distance we see them...TALKING and over a cup of coffee... Family Man, The : David Diamond David Weissman