Written by Scott Silver, Paul Tamasy & Eric Johnson Gradually hear the sound of metal scraping against asphalt... Lowell, Massachusetts - 1993 Abandoned textile mills on both sides, a two-story flat-iron style building splits the roads 100 yards ahead. Still hear metal scraping against asphalt.. .then it stops. a wheelbarrow filled with 250 pounds of black asphalt edges into frame, followed by the guy sweating, struggling as he pushes it, 31, short, compact, close-cropped reddish-blonde hair, little boy face, glancing over his shoulder, dumps the wheelbarrow on old cracked cement.. .picks up a scraping- spreading tool on a metal broom stick, and commences to spread out the new asphalt. Trying to complete a newly paved road to the right which ends in this intersection. The scraping tool spreading the new asphalt. Micky sweating, dirty from asphalt. Now skinny bare arms start shadowboxing around Micky working. Only the arms enter frame in combinations, shadow punches. (ignoring punches, keeps Will you help me finish this? He turns and kinda smiles as leans away with the rake, then slips and moves with the punches being thrown by "Dicky" 38, Micky's half-brother, skeleton-like arms, backwards baseball cap, shorts, work boots, enters frame, shadowboxing around Micky, smiles missing teeth. The two brothers play spar, joking, having fun. Micky throws a and Dicky play snaps his head back. Then Dicky does it to Micky. Then Micky throws an upper cut and Dicky pops his head up, broken toy robot. You knocked my block off! He resets his head, punches Micky. You knocked my block off! The Fighter 8/28/09 He resets his head, Micky throws again, Dicky mimes going down, then gets up immediately. (counts like ref) -six, seven, eight. [takes Dicky's hands] Can you continue? [Dicky nods] Who's the president? Five o'clock. Micky waves his hands like Dicky's done. Dicky throws another play punch and Micky hams up going down, getting knocked out, feet flying up in the air. The Fighter 8/28/09 2. He's down! Micky Ward is down! 4- 3-2-1, it's ovah! He's out! surprising ovahhand right! Dick Ecklund Jr. is right hereon ladies and gentlemen! documentary camerman, and a taping it all. Guys on the crack up in the background. The Pride a Lowell is back! He pulls Micky up Micky smacks the back of Dicky's head as Dicky raises Micky's arm in the air like a champ. My brothah's gonna beat Mamby, next week, on sorry Camera crew laughs as helps Micky up, starts; The Fighter 8/28/09 3. Dicky walks like a hero down the streets of working class Lowell, locals spilling out of storefronts, lunch counters, camera following him. (shadowboxing, moving) Look who's here! I'm comin' back, Lowell! Micky's gonna win, we got here! Look at this -- He walks down the street like he's running for office, people shouting his out his name. . .most everyone knows him...and even those who don't are charmed by this toothless Pied Piper... some look confused, surprised by his comeback, some hold memorabilia from his Sugar Ray Leonard fight to sign. He kisses a girl, laughs his missing-toothed grin. Dicky high- fives 19-year-old crew cut, body bent by cerebral palsy. Ray Ray! Smile, you're gonna be in my movie! HBO's makin' a fuckin' movie about me! And my brothah's gonna win next week! He grabs Micky's arm again, they are trailed by the road crew guys (one holds a boom box) walking behind Dicky shaking their heads, smiling, following. "Don't Bring Me Down" continues... Everybody shouting out Dicky's name, "Dicky!" "Dicky!" "Dicky!" Some calling "Micky!" "Micky!" "Micky!" 4 What Dicky & Micky meagh to the city.. .What the city is all about, broken dreams, no hope. . .How Micky & Dicky are both the pride of Lowell now & forever... Other sisters come up asking questions: Pork, Little Alice. "Let's go to the bah!" Sherry shouts. The Fighter 8/28/09 4. .Dicky moves through the crowd, punches the air dancing in the dark crowded smoky club, old disco ball scattering light on gray carpeted walls, "Don't Bring Me Down" still playing... (shouts over the music) Meet my muthah! We're back on His mother, 57, caught off guard, smoking, waves them away, hides her face. I'm not ready! Catch a glimpse of her tough, sexy, fighter's nose, years of hard life, bleached-blonde hair, sucking on a Lucky Strike, drinking by at a white-topped table cluttered with empty beer bottles, overflowing ashtrays, cigarettes burning out. (shouting over music) My sistahs! Six of Alice's seven daughters look up as the camera pans and pauses for each one: 35, skinny, red hair; 32, blonde red, tall. 30, full breasts, bleached-blonde; 31, a mini-version of Alice; 36, round face, bleached-blonde, 33, wasted; and They are like a bleached blond, cigarette smoking Greek chorus that trails Alice everywhere. the next as Dicky introduces them, seeing each distinctive, hardened face. (as each nods to camera) That's Red Dog, Sherry, the baby, Beavah, Pork, Little Alice, Donna, and Tar. They follow my muthah everywhere! (Holding a napkin to his I'm Mary, the eighth sister. Alice runs for the bathroom. Dicky chases after her through the crowd and the smoke and the music. The Fighter 8/28/09 Dicky grabs and pulls her onto the crowded little dance floor.. .Dicky and Alice dance. Micky and the sisters join in. The Fighter 8/28/09 5. 25, tall long red hairy strong, serving drinks, guys encouragi ng her to do shots, hesitates, they pull her around the bar, moves in slight Micky sees her ass, then her cl eavage when she turns, bends over to do shots with them. Dicky, Alice, Little Alice, Donna, Red Dog (Gail), Beaver (Phyllis), Tar (Cindy), Pork (Cathy), Producer, cameraman laughing sit along the wall at tables. Micky just drinks water and watches, from afar bartender at the I'm confused, George's whose father? - Who knows how many fathahs, Alice ain't prejudice, she gives everybody a chance! Alice punches Dicky in the arm. Dick Ecklund Sr. is Dicky's father The Fighter 8/28/09 6. And Donna's, Gail's and Phyllis's fathah. And even though I'm an Eklund, and so is Cindy and Cathy, George is really our dad. George is my Poppa. But we got the Eklund name. (horrified by all of this) Dick Ecklund and were separated. It's not like was foolin' around. Producer looks confused. Georgie's fingahs are so fat he can't dial the phone. Pan to George Ward, holding a roofing invoice, trying to dial the buttons on a pay phone next to them. (trying to dial pay phone) Shut up, Tah. Alice and everyone laughs. George reading the roofing invoice, holding the pay phone, and gives them all the finger. Short & fat. That's not helpin', George. Look at that fat thing! They all crack up. You can't beat that ass, come on. George pats his son's shoulder as he stands behind Micky at the bar, both looking at Charlene. Awkward. The Fighter 8/28/09 6aA. She glances up at him once in the midst of her bartending. He doesn't say anything. She ignores him. It's awkward. (works, not looking) Are you gonna say anything? Are you gonna order a drink? Are you gonna just stand there lookin' at my ass? Your father looks at my ass but at least he talks. Micky looks at her. (works not looking) He thinks you're the greatest, but he didn't tell me you're mute. You're Kenny Fleming's sistah. The Fighter 8/28/09 (works, not looking) Oh, you talk. You pave streets, right? do, and I'm a fightah. The Fighter 8/28/09 7. (works, not looking) heard you're a steppin' stone. steppin' stone?! I'm no steppin' stone. What do you mean steppin' stone? (finally turns and looks) The guy -- they use -- against othah fightahs to move the othah fightahs up. Micky and Charlene stare at each other. He is taken aback. Maybe had a few -- tough fights, but that's not who am. [she stares at him, gauging him]. Next's gonna show who am. (shouts from behind Micky) He's gonna lose again! [Micky looks away, pissed, like he's gonna leave]. Scotch & soda one for me and one for Charlene, move that sugar ass and get the drinks! Micky suddenly slaps the guy fast twice with one hand, the guy kinda falls to the bar. Be nice! Be respectful. Don't disrespect her. Charlene watches, slightly turned on. (jumps in front of Micky) Don't hurt ya hands, we got a fight next week! (turns to the drunk) - What you say to my bruthah? What you say to me? plunks down the drunk's drinks. (peaking above the bar) I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Micky. The Fighter 8/28/09 And whatta ya say to me? I'm sorry, Dicky. (to Charlene, hugs Micky's That's right, and I'm takin' ya drink. My bruthah's gonna beat Saoul Mamby! This guy's gonna be a champion, he's a great guy, a great fightah. The Fighter 8/28/09 8. He takes the guy's drinks, kisses smiling Micky on the cheek. Charlene stares. That's my big brothah. Taught me everything i know. HBO's doin' a movie about 'im. Everybody's talkin' about it. But who are fightin'? Saoul, Sal, Saul? Mamby, Mamby. Momby. What kinda name is Saoul Mamby? Black. And Jewish. Where'd they find a guy like that? He's no joke, Formah World Champ. Formah champ. But match up good against him. What's that mean? I'm lightah, not gonna brawl him, I'm gonna outbox him. didn't know there was a difference. Brawl, ya slug it out, hit you, you hit me; boxin', like a chess game, pick my punches to take him down. I'm gonna go head, body, head, body, see go up his side, hit him here, arm comes down, go back up [demonstrates on her, close, looks at her shy] I'd like to maybe take you out some time. The Fighter 8/28/09 8aA. Charlene smiles at Micky's awkwardness, drinks. squeezes her around the shoulders, she shoves him off, turns away, guarded, takes care of business other side of bar. Are you married? Married? Would ask you out if was married? It happens all the time, trust me. I'm not married. wanna get to know you bettah. could take you to dinnah and a movie, how 'bout that? I'm not married. got a daughtah see every othah weekend. Let me take you out. When? Saturday get back from Atlantic City. The Fighter 8/28/09 She holds his gaze a moment. She picks up a pen and starts to write on a white cocktail napkin. She writes "Charlene" and her number on the napkin, then draws a lopsided heart around it. (takes the napkin, smiles) Next Saturday. Dinnah and a movie. The Fighter 8/28/09 9. fight breaks out next to Micky, jostling him but he remains oblivious, happily reading the napkin. George, cigarette dangling from his lips, claps for Micky. Micky jumps rope in the ring, stops, sweating, moves around the ring. producer sits bored, looks at his watch. Dilapidated gym, peeling paint, exposed pipes. Owner, 60s, pushed-in nose, starts working a couple kids on old duct-taped heavy bags, speed bags, including 20s, middleweight. Micky, sweating, leans on the ropes, glances at the clock, 11:25. of - Micky looks across gym: 4 Cameraman tapes. Why is Gail the toughest? Cuz she's quiet, but she'll straighten anyone out. Gail makes a fist, cracks up, covers her missing teeth. Whose your mother's favorite? The princesses. The girls. They all crack up. They never had to do nothin', never take out the garbage, or clean-- You can never wake 'em up, shhh, the babies ah sleepin'. That's cuz we hadda train! Come on! The Fighter 8/28/09 This is ah family and they're makin' a movie, it's us The Fighter 8/28/09 10. She's the baby, Sherry's the baby, very emotional. Ah mothah's excited about the movie, Dicky comin' back. And we hope Micky wins (crosses herself). Dicky's six years older than me. (pause) used to carry his bags (pause) to his workouts, some of his fights. He's a born fighter, very natural talent. always hadda work harder, and he's been my teacher. He's -- ya know - [real love] Dicky, nobody talks like him, moves like him, he fought Sugar Ray Leonard, ten rounds, he's the hero of Lowell. Everybody knows Dicky. He's s'pposed to be trainin' you right now, right? Is he still coming or did we mix this up? He'll be here -- should be -- He kinda goes on his own schedule sometimes. He'll be here. -- You know where he is -- They turn and look: 50, walks up to the ring. Sisters react with bit of surprise, drama. You gotta fight next week, Micky, you gotta be trainin' on time. He'll be here. ( fl ) The Fighter 8/28/09 Come on, can do the mits for ya, but then gotta get back to work. He jumps into the ring and holds the mits for Micky who hits them, they work the mits. Sisters whisper, gossip. Suddenly the door bursts open, Alice, made un, hair done, high heels, gold earrings, new dress, grand entrance with Dicky's scrapbooks under her arm...Two more daughters, Little Alice and Beaver, follow her. She stops when she sees the camera guys look up, unprepared. What's he doin'? Where's Dicky? Look at Alice! All dressed up for the movie! Outta the ring, O'Keefe, you can't do what my Dicky does! Your Dicky ain't here, Alice. Where could he possibly be, Ma? Undah the cabbage patch? The Fighter 8/28/09 11. (to the crew, laughing) Oh, Micky. Micky's a clown. Dicky went to the store for me. Yeah. He'll be here. Get outta the ring, O'Keefe, Dicky's the numbah one trainah, should be that way in the movie. Jesus, come by to help! gotta go back to work anyhow, it ain't fair to Micky. He needs to be trainin'. He's not bein' handled right. (waves off producer) Don't -- he's not part of this, forget him. He's numbah two man You need me walkin' in again? (turns back to the door) - wasn't ready last night, but I'm ready today. She's all dressed up! Look at her! Alice is dressed up. Producer nods for cameraman to turn to door. Alice turns to an old framed on the wall row of 14 year old boys posed in fighter's robes and gloves. That's the Golden Gloves, before that the Silvah Mittens, Micky did that too. Micky used to follow his big brothah everywhere, Dicky taught ya everything, right, honey? The Fighter 8/28/09 Micky raises eyebrows, nods. He's not only a great fighter, he's also a pretty great trainer. The Fighter 8/28/09 12. (eyes lighting up) My Dicky had went pro at 12, Rockingham Race Track with a 26 year old jockey. Both weighed 106 pounds. Dicky lied he was 18. In the ring, push in on Micky looks up, eyes wide. Tell 'im about Sugar Ray, Ma. Dicky knocked down Sugar Ray Leonard. In '78 -- we got the offah to fight Sugah Ray Leonahd. He just won the Gold Medal at the Olympics, Sugar Ray. He was the, ya know, the big new welter weight at that time. And Dicky was just a kid from Lowell. Dicky was undefeated! Dicky had never been knocked down in his professional career, neither had Sugar Ray. They were both 21- yeahs-old. It was Dicky's first ten roundah. know ya could question the judgement, first ten roundah against Sugar Ray Leonard, right? But as his managah, how could not take a Sugah Ray? Do you see what I'm saying? It was the biggest thing that evah happened to Lowell. The Fighter 8/28/09 It was huge. People still talk about it to this day. It was a great fight. ( 15 years earlier, already Tonight my son is gonna surprise everybody and beat Sugar Ray Leonard. Believe it, know it. Micky and Sugar Ray are described over clips. It's true! Sugar Ray had a hard time hitting Dickie, didn't really knock him down, but Dicky knocked Ray down! wore a new white dress. This fight was gonna change our lives forevah, and it did. Dicky, 21, bobbing moving versus Sugar Ray, 21. Hear Don Dunphy & Larry Merchant, "Ecklund is fast, Larry. If his goal is to frustrate Leonard, he's doing it. Leonard still hasn't solved his speed, still hasn't been able to find him, think in his own cute way Ecklund is making Leonard be the aggressor.." The Fighter 8/28/09 13. Sugar Ray seems to either punch or pull Dicky to the mat. "Ecklund smiling again, Ecklund is down! Let's see if they call that a knock down." Dicky pops right back up and they go to separate corners. "Let's see if they call that a knock down. Nope, not a knockdown. And the bell rings." didn't think that was a knockdown, Don." didn't think so either Larry, he was wrestled down. Not a knockdown." (shakes his head, holding crack smoke in) Wasn't a knockdown. Dicky kneeling smoking a crack pipe. He exhales crack smoke as he pops back to his feet where he bounces on his toes like a fighter opposite 40, a goofy looking chubby crackhead, rotting teeth, trucker's hat; long sideburns, sunken eyes, 35. Dicky inhales again from pipe, a refashioned plastic soda bottle, lit with a Bic lighter. He starts sparring BooBoo. Dicky actual audio in his head from the fight: "Ecklund has a bit of a reputation for being a fast-liver, Don." what?" fast-liver. And they think, at least Angelo said he thought that's what has held him back. But of course with an opportunity like this perhaps he's slowed down his living a little bit." (holding white dog) BooBoo put ya hands up, stand like Sugah Ray gotta get ready for my movie! Why they doin' a fuckin' movie on you? Legend-a Lowell, BooBoo! Comeback! Come on! (CnNTTNTTF.D ) The Fighter 8/28/09 14. Karen, 33, Dicky's Cambodian girlfriend, sitting on a stained suede couch with 31, dirty blonde hair; tall, 35, mid-drift, high, moving, in the background. Dicky shadow boxes BooBoo, while holding white dog. stahted the ovahhand right in the 8th. Slippin' his left, settin' him up for the knockdown in the 9th. Dicky Dicky'S -- Dicky Dicky First knock downa Sugar Ray's career! (snaps to rare moment of Ain't ya 'sposed to be trainin' Micky in the movie right now? That's not til 9. It's 11:45, Dick. What?! They scramble looking for the car. Where'd you fuckin' pahk the cah, BooBoo? didn't pahk it, you did! They are on the street of row houses, ( C'.ONTTNTTF.n 1 The Fighter 8/28/09 15. Fuckit, I'll run, need the Dicky starts running down the street ...BooBoo shakes his head, "roadwork?"...Wolfie staring after Dicky in shock. Roadwork?! Are you crazy? He runs great even when he's high. .Dicky runs in his crack clothes, shorts, work boots... .Dicky runs in his crack clothes, shorts, work boots, throwing punches in the air. and to his father Hey, Pappa! George looks up as he kneels, roofing, and sees Dicky. Kids run after him shouting. camera crew in the background filming Micky working the heavy bag, boom-boom-boom-boom! Tinny radio blares 'Voices Carry' by Til Tuesday. Dicky sweating out-of-breath, yet still goes into his trademark pimp stroll. Nobody turns, Micky's punches and radio too loud. His mouth drops, sees the camera filming Micky. Quackah! Quackah! Look who decided to show up, Dicky Donuts. Ahh! Dicky! Quackah! The Fighter 8/28/09 16. (notices Alice's hair, - This is nice. She slaps his hand away half coyly. (walks over to the camera, laughs) You been talkin' to the camera, Mick? Introduce everybody! (laughs, points at Carlos) Hoppy cut! (throws upper cut) -Hoppy cut! 50, short, Puerto Rican, points back, laughs Goncho, goncho, no goo' for yooou, Deeckie, no goo' for youuu!' (thick Puerto Rican accent, nods) No goo for you, Deeckie! Micky cracks up. Ray Ramalho, cerebral palsey limps up to Dicky, high-fives him. Dickyeeeee! Ray-Ray! (sweetly holds Ray's head to his to teach him) Put ya hands like this, turn that punch. Turn it. Ya ready for the camrahs? Micky's stands waiting, watching Dicky putting on a show. It's always the Dicky show. Are you annoyed that Dicky's late? Micky smiles, fades, a little annoyed, sorta covers. The Fighter 8/28/09 Micky, how do ya make a girl sound just like a porpoise? don't know, how? Ya go for the back door [Looks over his shoulder, shakes his head 'no' ]" "Eh-Eh! Eh-Eh!' [Everyone cracks up] had a lot of eggs this mornin' I'm full of yokes! Micky laughs as he punch/taps Dicky in the ribs. (holds his back) My back! My back! (laughing, mimics Dicky) "My back! My back! I'm full a yokes!" Quackah! We got Saoul Mamby. Jewish, black, formah World Champ. think we got all the bases covahed, right? (laughs) Micky lost three fights in a row, he can't get used to losin', it becomes a mental thing, we're gonna break it with Mamby, right? Yeah, let's train! The Fighter 8/28/09 17. Enough a you wastin' time, Mick, half the fuckin' day's gone, we got work to do! Micky glares at Dicky like he's going to fucking hit him. Oooh, Alice, he's mad now, look at him. Ya hit one those guys like ya wanna hit me right now maybe ya woulda won one of them fights! (laughs to producer) See? He's a quiet guy, he needs the fire. Micky, mad, motivated, works mits with Dicky. As they flow together, Dicky's movement is, impressive, fluid and more intense. (calls out combinations) Work, work, head, body, head, body. [To camera] Set it up sneaky, switches stances inside. No! [shoves Micky] That's too far out, switch inside, see, he switches outside, I'm gonna catch him like this, [upper cuts Micky, nails him], don't switch Micky, mad, throws a fast combination back but Dicky leans on the ropes and clinches Micky, smiles at camera, pops his hips forward. Gimme Jose! .Micky sparring Jose in the ring, headgear, mouthpiece. Dicky on the apron, shouting out instructions. Alice and his sisters standing behind him. documentary camera filming. (CC)NTTNT7Fn ) The Fighter 8/28/09 18. (shouting at Micky) Micky does everythin' tell him, he's goin' all the way to a world title! Now move, that's why you dropped the weight! We're gonna out box Mamby. [Now to Producer] Three months. can get myself back in shape in three months. (hand on Dicky's shoulder) My Dicky can do anything! Micky looks over annoyed. Hook-- Head-Body-Head! C'mon! That's ya fuckin' combo, head-body- head! Dicky taught him that! (throwing the combo himself) Ya know Sugah Ray's gonna be there callin' the fight for ain't seen him since since knocked 'im down 14 yeahs ago. (shouts at Micky in ring) You don't wanna embarrass yaself in front a Sugah Ray, do ya Mick?! Micky scowls at them, gets inside, unloads a vicious hook to Gilberto's ribs. Jose crumples down to the canvas. .Micky's eyes go wide as he looks down at Jose on the ground. Micky's surprised himself, that was good! That's ya punch, Micky. The Fighter 8/28/09 19. (nods, clapping) Both my boys are gonna do it! (hiding a young smile) Hey Jose, I'm sorry. [helps Jose That's a kidney punch, shuts the whole body down. Right heah - [pokes producer on the spot and he bends over in pain, Dicky laughs]. .Micky & Dicky head out of the gym, showered, dressed, hair still wet. Alice walking up ahead of them heading for her ' 88 white Lincoln Continental parked on the street, Little Alice and Beaver (Phyllis) following after her. cameras gone. (energized, hopeful) feel good. feel lightah. You look good! You can definitely do this. You look good in there, Micky, real good. [false teeth sideways, crazy face]. I'm Saoul Mamby, Micky Ward hit me - Dicky arm around Micky, walks up to Alice at her car, Little Alice and Beaver getting inside. He shoves his dentures coo- coo sideways -- The Fighter 8/28/09 Micky smiles as Dicky acts crazier, zinging him in the sides a little; Micky zings him back, two brothers, they mash into Alice and sisters and against the car, all laughing, Dicky tickles Alice. The Fighter 8/28/09 20. (scrunches her neck & shoulder, squirms away can't stand that, Dicky, .Micky driving his banged-up old car, parking in the driveway of a large beautiful house, upper-class neighborhood. Micky knocking on the door. His ex-girlfriend's husband, 45, well off, answers the door. Micky, how's it goin'? Ya know don't think Laurie's expecting -- 32, dirty blonde, thin walks up. What's he doing here? This isn't your visitation day, Micky. just wanna say hi to Kasie. It's not your day, goodbye. I'm not around next weekend -- Now you're ditchin' the days you have? have a fight told you that. (To Jimmy) Jimmy -- The Fighter 8/28/09 21. can't get in the middle. I'm asking Jimmy. can't talk to her, so I'm asking Kasie, talk to your father. .Micky's daughter, 10, curly hair, cute, comes up to the door, hugs her father hello. Goddamnit, Jimmy! Don't put me in the middle-a this (through the doorway) Daddy's gotta fight Saoul Mamby- That's right, and wanna tell ya that after win -- Talk to her on your days! I'm gonna staht makin' good money Hah! That's a good one! I'll move to a biggah apahtment so you can live with me more days like we talked about. Don't hold ya breath, Kasie. It's cruel to mislead ya child, Micky. She closes the door, arguing inside with Jimmy. (shouts through door) Good luck, Daddy! ( C'.nNTTNTTFD ) The Fighter 8/28/09 22. (shouts to door) Thanks, Kasie. Micky's apartment above a two-car garage, next to a gray Victorian house, lower-class neighborhood. Micky fixes himself in the mirror, straightening his button- down shirt, wears an ill-fitting sports coat, looks like a little boy playing dress up. Suitcase open on his bed. This is it, the day before the big fight. Micky parks in front of his parents' house; a limo out front. Micky opens the door, grabs his suitcase... Alice checks her hair, smooths her dress in the mirror. George, dressed nicely, struggles to close their suitcase on the bed, whistling. Both smiling, excited about the day, the fight. Dicky, 5, redhead, Dicky's son, runs in, followed by Pork. (embraces Little Dicky) Little Dicky, listen to Mummy, you be good for ya Aunt Cathy so ya daddy can help ya Uncle Micky win a fight, .Micky, Alice, George, Pork, Sherry, and Red Rog standing around the limousine. All dressed nice for their travel. They exchange looks. George shakes his head and mutters something to himself. No sign of fucking Dicky. (lowers his voice) It's none a my business, but been goin' to meetin's, and they say let go and let Gahd. You don't need this shit, Micky. Let's just go without 'im. The Fighter 8/28/09 23. (looks down at his feet) - thanks, Mick, but Dicky taught me everything, he's been in my cornah, ya know. can't do it without 'im. You're already doin' it without him. Micky walks down the driveway of the crack house as Alice walks up to the front porch. .Dicky open mouth makes out with Karen, his Cambodian girlfriend, BooBoo sits next to them smoking crack. They've been up for days, eyes racing, high. (shouts from downstairs) Dicky, (real fear in his eyes) I'm not here! Bonnie laughs as Dicky rushes for an open window in the back of the kitchen, 2nd floor of the crack house. Dicky climbs out the window and jumps... .Dicky flying, falling... lands hard on top of some garbage bags...Bounces onto the filthy ground. He rolls over, his back fucked. Stumbles up to his feet, grimacing... Micky stands there waiting in the back yard, watching. What the fuck are you doin'? Don't tell Ma I'm here, pick me up back at the house, I'll go through the yahds - We gotta go to the airport now. You know how important this fight is. The Fighter 8/28/09 23aA. Pick me up at the house! Micky gives Dicky a boost onto a fence to climb over. Hurry up, she's out front, and we gotta flight to catch. But as Dicky struggles to climbing over, George comes charging toward them. The Fighter 8/28/09 The Fighter 8/28/09 24. This is what you do to ya brothah the day we travel? George pulls Dicky off the fence, swings at him with a big punch; Dicky slips the punch and nails George in the eye with an overhand right, George goes down. Micky rolls his eyes. Could we please just go to the airport for once? Alice comes around the corner. Ohmygawd, Dicky, why do you come to this place? (walks her, arm around) No, no, just came to check on some friends, I'm not mixed up in this. Micky looks at his mother in disbelief, his father down on the ground behind him... . his brother high out of his mind. Help ya husband up, Alice. Ya husband's on the ground there. Instead Dicky helps Alice up the driveway to the limo. Micky helps his father to his feet. Everybody sits in the limo in silence looking out different windows as Micky helps George settle into his seat and hands him a can of Coke George holds to his punched eye. Close the door. Hold on. written on forehead. What the fuck is he doin' here? The Fighter 8/28/09 25. We got a promotional thing we're doin', for the bar, it's gonna be good, you'll see. No. That's distracting for Micky. Nobody asked you! No. No BooBoo. BooBoo looks to Dicky who rolls his eyes; BooBoo leaves. Micky stares in disbelief. Alice leads Dicky, Micky, George, Mickey O'Keefe through the ringing slot machines of a casino. Next morning, day of the fight. Micky & Dicky hanging out in Micky's room, sitting on the bed watching a video of "Mamby vs Meekins" on (excited, jumps up off the bed, showing Micky) See his right ahm goes leaves his side open, light him up like a pinball machine, he'll be pissin' blood, no way you lose, no way - .Alice and 40s, balding, mustache, the matchmaker for walk into the room, "Mamby vs Meekins" still playing on Alice looks serious. (stretches out his back) couldn't get us bettah rooms than this, Lou? wouldn't worry about the rooms, Dicky, we gotta bigger issue. The Fighter 8/28/09 26. Like what? The doctor won't let Mamby fight. Why not? He's got the flu. Mamby got the flu?! feels his whole fight plan go out the window. We can still have a fight, Micky. Micky stares at him. With who? Mike Mungin. Mike Who? Mungin? The guy from Philly, ain't he in prison? He's been out a few months. It's the only guy we could find, called everybody. The last few fights were rough, Lou, this one's 'sposed to be a little easiah. The guy just got off the couch today, it's an easy win for Micky. Dicky and Alice nod, Micky unsure. Joey Ferrell knocked this guy out. (C_nNTTNTTT?T)1 The Fighter 8/28/09 27. Micky knocked out Joey Ferrell. Exactly, and Mungin just got off the couch. He can't make weight, of course, he's a bit over. How over? Maybe 162, 165. He's a fuckin' middleweight, Ron! Micky got light! He's 146! We're gonna box Mamby, not slug it out with a middleweight! He's fat! He just got off the couch! (exhales, thinks) And Joey Ferrell knocked him out. gotcha. Hold on, 165's big. You knocked out Joey Ferrell. So what? The guy's a middleweight. He just got off the couch. He's 20 pounds bigger than me. The Fighter 8/28/09 Joey Ferrell knocked him out! You knocked out Joey Ferrell. You just said that. You can't be scared. How 'bout you go fight him? He's a middleweight. He's fat. You knocked out Joey Ferrell. How many times ya gonna say knocked out Joey Ferrell? beats beats so can beat But what if it rains that day, anything could happen -- You don't fight, nobody gets paid. Whoa. Micky sees Alice and Dicky looking at him. Joey Ferrell knocked this guy out. And knocked out Joey Ferrell. They all nod. You gotta pay us somethin' extra for the change, Lou. [He nods] Ward vs. Mungin - Resorts International, Atlantic City. Micky's in white trunks, robe with "'Irish' Micky Ward" on the back, following Dicky, Mickey O'Keefe, 2nd in the corner, cutman Micky sees his name spelled wrong on the back of the white corner men jackets, "Mickey Ward." don't spell my name with an 'e. The Fighter 8/28/09 28. Don't fuckin' ask me. just take what ya give me. O'Keefe turns back to Micky who's staring at 27, 5'9", 158 lbs, red trunks, in the opposite corner: and in prison shape, big biceps, shoulders, neck. Micky's eyes widen with fear. That guy's not a welter weight. (whispers to his brother) Dicky, look at that guy. .Dicky's not listening, waving to the cameraman filming ringside... sees now 38, sitting ringside, calling the fight for with 40s, salt & pepper hair, mustache. Ray! Sugah Ray! Ovah heah! Sugar Ray doesn't respond to Dicky. He's talking to the camera, still looks young, handsome, not a mark on him. We gotta talk latah! Dicky, listen to me. can't lose again. Look at that guy. Holy shit. [rubs Micky's neck] Yeah, holy shit, stop lookin' at Sugar Ray and wake up. We'll hafta run the first few rounds, get 'im tiahed, he can't be ready, right? He just got off his fuckin' couch. He did not just get off his fuckin' couch. Look at me, Mick, don't look away. The Fighter 8/28/09 He grabs Micky's chin and makes Micky look him in the eye. The Fighter 8/28/09 29. You can't go back to fightin' scared, you gotta hit back like you know you can and know you can. don't care who that guy is, you're Micky Ward. Micky nods, but we see he's scared; it's not a fair fight. Rd 3 - :49 (time running down). Mungin muscling Micky into a corner, blood already dripping from Micky's nose. Hook to the body--Hook to the body--Hard uppercut ...Bam! Bam! Bam! Micky stumbles, hurt, almost goes down, blood spilling down his nose, mouth, face, hear "Oh, he hurt Micky Ward!"...Micky ties Mungin up, holding on.. .Sugar Ray Leonard, "This would be a huge upset! I'm not sure what Micky expected from a last minute substitute, but he surely couldn't have expected this." .Dicky screaming from ringside for Micky to move.. .Alice, George sitting behind him can't look. . .Micky tries to fight back ...Mungin's just too big, too strong, unloading hard shots to Micky's head, big uppercuts ...Micky's getting the shit kicked out of him...All he can do is cover up, holding his gloves close to his face.. .The bell rings. End of Rd 3. .Micky heads for his corner, blood running, Dicky jumps into the ring, Mickey O'Keefe puts down the stool.. .Micky sits down, starts to wipe the blood from his face, Dicky takes out Micky's mouthpiece. - Button it up, Ed. If you can't stop the bleedin', we'll fuckin' sue ya. .Ed Aliano smiles, sticks swabs up Micky's nose to stop the bleeding, get everything cleaned out. . .Dicky pours water into Micky's mouth. Micky swishes it around, spits it out... You okay? The Fighter 8/28/09 30. (looks up at his brother; knows he can't win) What're you doin' out there? You feel like fightin' or what? You gotta jab and move. Don't stand in front of this guy, keep 'im off ya, jab and move - (shows him, jabbing the air, moving back & forth) Jab and move. What are you ascared of? You're fightin' scared again! Micky just nods. Rd 6 - 2:01 (time running down. Micky covering his face with his gloves, gash open, bleeding above his left eye.. .hear Al Bernstein, "Micky's taking a beating. He's standing there taking those shots from Mungin.I'm not sure why." Leonard, don't know, Micky was once one of the most promising light welterweights around, but he's had some tough luck losses, and sometimes after a fighter loses a few times it becomes a mental thing." Mungin hits him with hard left uppercut and an overhand right right on the chin. . .Micky goes sprawling across the ring, stumbling backwards... Falling down hard onto the canvas! .Micky gets back onto his feet, looks into his corner at Dicky screaming, "Hold on! Hold on!"...Micky bleeding from his nose, above his eye, looks lost. . .Referee gives him a standing eight-count, "One... Two... Three..." .Micky wipes blood from his nose with the back of his glove..."Six... Seven..." He glances into the crowd, blood smeared on his face, gloves, sees his mother covering her face with her hands... Post-fight, crowded. Ring doctor checking the cut above Micky's left eye, another deep gash open on his cheekbone just under the eye, still bleeding from his nose, his face a bloody mess.. .Dicky wiping Micky's face with a sponge, glancing down at the crew, shaking his head, Mickey O'Keefe rubbing Micky's neck ...Mungin smiling in the background, everybody waiting for the decision... The Fighter 8/28/09 31. .Blood, sweat dripping into Micky's eyes, he knows he lost, he knows he fucking lost again... Micky sits on the trainer's table in the middle of the room, showered, dressed, face bandaged. Alice gently touches the back of his neck, whispers in his ear. He nods. She holds his head a few moments. Dicky comes in. We nevah shoulda fought that guy. Forget about it. Alice, HBO's waitin' for us. Sugah Ray's out there! C'mon you come too, Mick. Dicky heads back out. Alice looks at Micky, pats his cheek and follows after Dicky, leaving Micky sitting alone on the trainer's table. Dicky walks toward Sugar Ray Leonard who is with signing autographs for fans. Hey, Ray,-- The bodyguard stops him. Sugar Ray sees Dicky and waves him over.. .Dicky smiles, missing teeth. The cameraman following after him. Sugar Ray shakes Dicky's hand. Tough night for your brother, he shoulda jabbed more, stayed away. That's what was tellin' 'im! told 'im, Ray. But Mungin weighs like 160 pounds! fucked us,-- (stretches his back, turns to Sugar Ray's girl) Ya know knocked Ray down. (laughs, smiles his million dollar smile) Come on, Dick, tripped. The Fighter 8/28/09 32. Oh don't say that now. know look like shit, but,-- went 10 rounds with you, Ray, knocked you down. C'mon, lemme buy you guys a drink. Thanks, Dick, but we have to get going, have a plane to catch. (points to the HBO's doin' a movie on me, Ray. And I'd like to call ya sometime, I'm gonna get a fight, and I'd like ya to be there for old time's sakes, ya know, maybe you can commentate on it or somethin'. Dick, you let me know. What's the movie about? (looks at Sugar Ray like he's fucking crazy; what My comeback. Sugar Ray just nods at Dicky, sees Alice walking up to them. - You look great Mrs. Ward, hope you're well. Nevah bettah, Ray, nevah bettah. God bless. Sugar Ray smiles and slips out of the casino with the girl and his bodyguard, leaving Dicky & Alice standing alone under the bright neon lights. camera still filming... What's he talkin' to Mike Toma for? He starts to head over. The Fighter 8/28/09 33. (holds Dicky back, lowering her voice so the camera doesn't hear) Stay heah, Dick, stay heah, don't go ovah thayh. (shakes his head, gruff You goin' to the hospital? They said need stitches. (pulls Micky in closer, lowers his voice) Listen, Mick, I'm just gonna cut to it, you never shoulda fought that guy. You should be doin' better. With all due respect, don't think you're bein' handled properly. wanna give you a real shot. want ya to come with me. wanna pay ya to train with my guys. Where? Las Vegas. Do it right and make one last run at this thing before it's too late. You'll pay me to train in Vegas? Change of scenery's good, get outta Lowell. Micky looks at him, eyes widen as he looks over Toma's shoulder; he seems to feel a touch of so we can see what he's looking at: The Fighter 8/28/09 34. What about my brothah? (shakes his head) With all due respect, he's too much trouble. You owe it to yourself to come to Vegas. deciding. Hear his mother and father and brother laughing, kibbitzing, smoking cigarettes. What did Mike Toma want? (looking out window, He wants to train me in Vegas. Alice and Dicky glance at each other, and study Micky. You can't trust that guy, Micky, you don't know 'im. Did he say anythin' about me? Did he say could come? (looking out window) No, he didn't mention you. Who's gonna look out for ya in Vegas, Micky? They're all crooks out there. What would you do without Dicky? Or the family? (looks at Dicky) Yeah know. That's what told 'im. Micky looks back out the window, face bandaged, no emotion. The Fighter 8/28/09 35. Everyone walking away from the limo, suitcases in hand. Micky heading for his shitty car parked on the street, Dicky walking to Alice's house with his mother and father. Micky O'Keefe stands nearby at his car. Pork, Tar, Beaver, Sherry and Red Dog are also there. (calls out to Micky) Take care, Mick, we'll talk tommorrah. Little Dicky runs out of the house into Dicky's arms. Hey, champ! Daddy's home! Did Uncle Micky win? Not this time, Dicky, try and gimme a sock in the nose-- Micky, lost in thought, stands at his car watching Dicky playing with Little Dicky. We'll get you anothah fight, Micky. Nah, don't think wanna do this no more. What? (looks up as Little Dicky tags him in the nose) What're you talkin' about? George walks over to his Micky sympathetically as Dicky grabs his brother by the shoulders. screwed us, they owe us. We'll get anothah fight. Just get healed up, Micky, you're okay - The Fighter 8/28/09 36. Listen to your bruthah, honey, they owe us big time. Maybe they could even do Dicky's comeback fight too. Micky just nods okay. Dicky pats him on the back as Micky gets into his car. Christ, Alice, he's been through the wringah - What're you talkin' about? (to O'Keefe who's staring - And what's your fuckin' problem? Mickey O'Keefe shakes his head and walks away. of photographs of Kasie, Micky & Dicky in the ring after fights; red & white boxing gloves; boxing magazine; flickering Micky lies sleeping in his clothes on the couch, bandages on his head. He sits up, playing. He gets up and walks into the small kitchen, grabs a beer out of the refrigerator, swallows some pills. And picks up the cocktail Picks up the phone, starts to dial, stops, looks at the number. Hangs up the phone. Goes back into the living room and lies down on the couch and falls asleep again. (groggy, out of it) What,-- What is it? He gets up off the couch and peeks through the shade.. Scared, he ducks back down, crouches behind a chair. continues. The Fighter 8/28/09 37. saw your shadow. And heard you talk two seconds ago! Micky doesn't move. Why don't you open the door and tell me to my face why you didn't call me yestahday? Micky thinks, goes to the door, opens it. Charlene is slightly taken aback by his bandaged face. - Why'd you stand me up last night? was gonna call, started to call, but couldn't call. 'Cuz you lost the fight? Maybe, yeah, 'cuz lost the fight. They stand there looking at each other. How'd you know my house anyway? asked my brothah,-- (sees one of the bandages on his head peeling away) Your, ahhh, your thing is comin' off. She points to his face. He touches the right side bandage. No, the othah thing. It's a mess. It a mess. Ya got any tape? The Fighter 8/28/09 38. Micky sits on the edge of the tub while Charlene carefully re- bandages the left side of his eye and cheek bone. It is quiet for a few moments while Micky looks into her face. Did the Jewish black guy do this to you? Micky looks away. Charlene fixes the bandage. didn't get to fight the Jewish black guy. You didn't go head-body-head. (shakes his head) He got the flu, the guy who took his place had 16 pounds on me, nevah shoulda fought him. So why'd you fight him? Nobody woulda got paid. Everybody said could beat 'im. Who's everybody? My mothah and my brothah. She looks at him as she takes this in. So are you gonna take me to dinnah and movie tonight or what? Sun starting to set. Micky stands next to his car, checks himself in the side view mirror, hair still wet, combed, new bandage on his face, pauses. The Fighter 8/28/09 39. He opens the passenger door for Charlene, she's in a tight top, short skirt, fancy flip-flops. Her large yellow Victorian house behind her. Wow, you look great. You got a nice house. Thanks. It's an apahtment building. Oh. There's five of 'em in there, one-a my old roommates lives in one. (closes the door, gets into the car) Old roommates from where? College, but a lot a good it did me, I'm workin' in a bah. You seem to enjoy it. You're very populah down there - Uh yuh. Popular. need to get the hell outta that place. If don't drink while I'm workin' I'd kill myself - (starts the car, looks over at her) What college? Full boat. Scholarship? For what? was a high jumpah. The Fighter 8/28/09 40. high jumpah?! You gotta be kiddin' me. Fuck you, cleahed 5-10, was New England Champ, but so what, nevah graduated. pahtied too much. (drives looks at her raising an eyebrow) You?! Charlene laughs lightly through her nose. Night. Micky pulls up to an art house movie theater in another city, state (right next door), "hip" part of town. They get out of the car. (looking around the theater, street) What the hell we doin' in Richie Rich Lexington? You come to this theatah a lot? Oh yuh, it's a good movie theatah. They have good movies. Like what? Bell-ah Epa-cue. The marquis says is playing. think Belle Epic is how ya say it and nevah heard of it. Is it only playin' up here in Lexington? Oh yuh. And heard it's a good movie. The Fighter 8/28/09 41. From who? (walks ahead of her) Guy at work - She looks at him puzzled as she they enter the theater. Four people there - movie in progress. Charlene sit watches, looks at Micky asleep with his head back, mouth open. After movie, Micky and Charlene exit the theater. Neither says a word for a moment. That's what you wanted to see? There wasn't even any sex. What Lowell guy on a road crew saw that movie in Lexington and recommended it?? Micky walks quickly ahead to the car, can't find his keys. Where's the keys, musta lost 'em in the theatah, I'm a dummy Micky. [He stops, turns] They're in your hand. Micky looks at the keys in his hand, embarrassed. .Charlene stares at him as he starts the car. He starts to back out, looking over his shoulder. What's going on? You afraid to run into your girlfriend? You have a girlfriend, just say it, that's why you took me to Lexington. then stops, puts the car in park and turns the engine off. f nNTTNTTFT)' The Fighter 8/28/09 don't have a girlfriend. came here because don't wanna show my face in Lowell. The Fighter 8/28/09 42. Charlene stares at him. He doesn't look at her. - What do you have to be ashamed of? told everyone was gonna win that fight and get back on track. told Kasie we'd get a biggah place so she could move in. (stares at him a beat) You said you never shoulda fought that guy, but your mothah and your brothah wanted ya to do it. What's the difference, I'm alone in the ring anyway. You think your family's lookin' out for ya? (finally looks at her) You can't say that about my family. What else could say after what you told me? Look at your face, look at you. Beat. He suddenly leans in and kisses her. The kiss builds with confidence and passion to a very intense level of connection and abandon and promise. Alice talking on the phone, sitting at her dining room table control center, long Lucky Strike cigarette in her hand. The Fighter 8/28/09 43. Most of the sisters sitting and walking around her, center of their universe, some drinking some smoking, all chattering. - Bullshit, Lou, I'm not gonna stop callin' til ya make it right and give us a fight that's fair! My boy coulda got killed last time. . .Like what? ...What else?... what is it? Mm, mm. Now you're talkin', that sounds very interesting, I'll get back to you. [Hangs up] We gotta a great opportunity, we gotta find Micky. Nobody seen him for like a week. Jesus, it used to be Dicky was the one we couldn't find, now it's both of 'em? think Micky's with that girl from the bah. What girl? George was all fuckin' eagah for them to get togethah. heard she's into threeways. With othah girls. Yeah like one of them girls - (puts her hand over the (screws up her face) phone) girl? girls? What're you talkin' about, Cathy? Wild. fl The Fighter 8/28/09 44. She acts all superiah 'cuz she went to college. Just find Micky and tell him we have business to discuss. I'm gonna go find Dicky myself. Alice, trailed by Dicky holding the white dog, walks back to her car from the crack house, trying not to cry. Dicky, behind her like a kid in trouble, looks like shit, up for days. She pauses at the car, crying. Dicky hugs her shoulders with one arm. Mid-handshakes, awkward Charlene, with Micky, meets Alice, Tar, Beaver, Pork, Little Alice, Red Dog, Sherri. Cuts on Micky's face healed. Charlene does a double take on Alice's staring and studying her as Charlene has moved on to the sisters, she and Alice share an icy wary look. (looks Charlene up & down) - I've heard a lot about you. Really? heard a lot about you, too. What's that supposed to mean? The same thing you meant. Micky shifts uncomfortably toward the sofa. Why don't we sit down and hear what's goin' on businesswise? (smiles, excited again, proud of herself) The Fighter 8/28/09 45. got ya anothah fight, Mick, just like said would. Lou Gold and made it right. (holds white dog) Just like told ya! Against Joey Belinc in six weeks at Foxwoods! Kid's like 10-8. He's nuthin'. And they're payin' us 25 grand! (nods, still smiling 17.5, Dick. 17.5, thought you said 25, anyway that's still good money, Mick. Oh yuh. That's good, Dick, I'm just, ya know, trying to figure out what's best for me-- Micky tilts his head, cat's got his tongue. They all look at him. Alice lights a cigarette, exhales, tense. (exhales cig smoke) Like what? What!? Charlene looks at Micky, as if to say, "speak. is He looks at her, she starts to open her mouth, stops. (looks at Micky, hurt) don't know why you're not more excited, Mick. thought ya'd be more excited. That's good money. It's a good fight. got tough with Lou Gold, Micky, told him he owes us. Yeah, know, Ma. It's just,-- don't want things goin' the way they been goin'. The Fighter 8/28/09 46. (mouth open, wild-eyed) Why, how they been goin'? You're the one in the ring, Micky, yeah that last one was unfair, but we ain't gonna repeat that, so it's up to you in the ring. know, but don't want things to go like they been goin' Where? Here, this, us, Lowell. The routine. We're workin' very hard for you, Micky, don't know what more you want. What's his problem? Micky sits back and folds his arms, a bit frustrated. don't know, maybe you not showin' up on time to train. Maybe Micky havin' to come find you in a crack Crack house?! --when you're sposed to go to the airport. (glares at Charlene) I'm sorry, don't understand who you ah or why you're talkin' - My name is Charlene, you just met me, I'm datin' Micky. Should we do it again? Hi, my name is Charlene. The Fighter 8/28/09 What do you know about anythin'! We don't even know who you ah. You just met her - The Fighter 8/28/09 47. (sits back, laughs) just met her! (laughing with his mother) He don't know who she is! We're togethah. (nods, getting pissed off) We're together, don't insult me and don't insult Micky. You gonna listen to some girl who works in a bah. What does she know about boxin'? girl? might not know -- much about boxin' - but goin' to Vegas an' gettin' paid yeah round -- sounds much bettah to me -- than what you got 'im doin' heah. (looks over at Micky) - Ah you gonna let 'er talk like that to your muthah? C'mon, Micky! told you we're together! This is my girlfriend, want her here. have done everything [pauses] could [pauses] to help you. And for this -- girl -- Stop callin' me a girl, whatever the fuck that means. Wild. [Charlene makes a face] The Fighter 8/28/09 48. (wipes a tear) been doin' this for ovah 15 years, she comes in and disrespects And me. She don't mean no disrespect. had a chance to get paid to train year round, that's all she's talkin' about. think everyone can appreciate that. Dicky stares taking this in, wheels turning. Of course! Of course, Micky, coulda had that! know what you're talkin' about. You think I'm stupid? He knows, we know -- Ma, please, let me say this had opportunities like you're gonna maybe have. had a girl wanted to be home with.[Sad for a moment] You should have that. No one's sayin' you shouldn't have that. But can't have you goin' to Vegas, we gotta stick together, Micky, please. can get ya money to train yeah 'round, if that's what ya want. I'll handle it. Dicky looks at Micky. . .then turns to Alice and nods his head at her. He's got it. She's puzzled. Micky nods. Uncomfortable awkwardness as everyone looks at him and Charlene. The Fighter 8/28/09 You put in $200, then you get ten people -- Dicky and BooBoo sit amid an 10 Karen, his 6 is behind Dicky. The Fighter 8/28/09 49. -- to give $200 each, and now you have your $2,000. Translates to Cambodian. Understand? Everyone give you 200 dollah? Not everyone, just 10 a you. Ten lucky ones. Karen shouts at the others in Cambodian. You rip us off! No no no no. I'm givin' you an You give $200! You get that from you offah the opportunity to. You think Cambodian people White people do this! To othah white people! It's what makes the world go 'round. (puts an arm around Karen) love Cambodian people! They all yell in Cambodian at Dicky who looks aggravated, still holding onto Quackah. The Fighter 8/28/09 50. crew filming Dicky smoking crack, Bic lighter in his hand, leaning against half of an old dining-room table in a filthy kitchen, faded strawberry wallpaper. BooBoo, Karen, Becky, Wolfie, standing around. Bonnie in background. (mumbling fast to camera, high out of his mind) They didn't understand. They're practically my gang, they usually listen to me but didn't understand the opportunity, anyway, where were Before you fought Sugar Ray -- Oh, yeah, all the money coulda made if we just fuckin' did it they threw me in too early. We didn't know, my mothah didn't know, Sugar Ray was too much, too soon. needed to build slow. If had Micky's discipline, with my talent, forget about it. My wife Debbie was the prettiest girl in Lowell, and my daughtah Kasie, mean Kerry, want Kerry to be proud a me. [Lights pipe] Why you let them film you smokin'? What this movie about again? Hey's crazy! told you it's about crack addiction. Showing what can happen, what it really is, so kids can see it for real. can tell ya about the way it works in the brain-- The Fighter 8/28/09 Excuse me, BooBoo, it's still my movie, and this part [lights pipe] will make me and Micky's comeback more dramatic. I'll tell ya how crack works [inhales from pipe]. The Fighter 8/28/09 51. When it entahs ya blood, ya get a peaceful energetic feeling ovah ya body, a kinda happiness - As his words continue we Dicky'S and medium shot, Dicky sits by a window, high; from this dissolves a second Dicky who dances a slow happy, funk dance across the room; out of this second Dicky dissolves a third Dicky who lies on the couch, Karen comes and makes out with him -- over the above) -all the mistakes and the regrets of the past melt away, you feel so much lightah like when you were young and everything's in front of you. Then it fades and you gotta get high again. All three Dickys in the flashback - by the window, dancing, making out on couch -- flicker and vanish to the grating sound of aphone left off the hook. Dicky's face in present Fuck gotta find money for Micky. What time is it? Charlene stands alone on the lawn with her arms crossed. Why aren't you at work? Is paying you to train? Dicky's handlin' it. Dicky? Alice would be better than Dicky. Would you jump for Chrissakes? Kasie's bein' very patient. The Fighter 8/28/09 52. 10, tattered chez pillows on the lawn beneath it. Maybe it's too hard for her. Maybe there's not enough cushions. It's only 5'1", she did 5'8" as a champ, right Charlene? 5'8"? Charlene jogs a little curve to the bar and backwards, clearing 5'1," landing on the pillows. Yes! He claps with Kasie as Charlene stands rubbing her ass. Fuck, those pillows barely did the job, pardon my French, Kasie. Hey, we gotta get you home Kasie, gotta business dinnah with Nana. Skinny Karen stands on the corner in hooker hot pants, high heels, halter top. new Volvo station wagon slows down and a nervous-looking upper middle class NPR-type businessman, 45, in a suit and tie, cruises and toots the horn. Karen walks up to the window. You wanna date? The businessman swallows and nods as he looks at Karen's nipples and body. The Volvo wagon is parked by the side, lights off. Karen starts to go down on the businessman while he leans back and closes his eyes. The Fighter 8/28/09 53. Suddenly a beat-up station wagon pulls in behind them with its brights shining. Oh shit. (through cheap megaphone Get outta the cah put ya hands on the roof! The business man gets out, nervous, hands up, pants undone, puts his hands on the roof. All he sees are bright lights and Dicky's silhouette holding up a wallet like a badge. Still hear Quackah barking. (puts his hands on roof) Please, God, never did this before, have two kids, a wife and support my mother and my aunt. Empty ya pockets, put everything on the roof, wallet, cash. Your wife know you're here, huh? (confused, starts to turn) No, what? Are you - are you a cop? (swaying, wasted drunk) Don't turn around! Empty ya pockets! The guy empties his pockets onto the roof of the Volvo. BooBoo sits in Dicky's station wagon. Walk to the sidewalk, we have to take the vehicle. [Takes cash, mumbles to Karen] Take half, get us some rocks. How will get home? Suddenly the of a police siren and the flashing lights as a bald, gets out and Dicky. The Fighter 8/28/09 54. Dicky takes off running away... Dicky running down streets... running through backyards, driveways... Alice pulls out a - as she sits in a large booth with George, Mickey O'Keefe, Red Dog, Sherry. Micky arrives with Charlene -- (excited, smiles proud) What do ya think, Mick? Looks good, right? (kisses his mother hello, Oh, yeah, Ma, it looks great. Dicky comin'? (looks at watch) He'll be here. (nods, kisses Charlene Yuh. Hey, Charlene didja quit the bah? Didn't she just staht workin' there? She did. But she's wants to quit to go for teachah certification. thought she was plannin' to live offa Micky. Charlene gives Alice a look. The Fighter 8/28/09 54aA. C'mon, c'mon, this is 'sposed to be about the fight, let's just talk about the fight -- The Fighter 8/28/09 What?! was just makin' a joke for chrissakes. I'm sorry, Charlene. It's know you been tryin' to live offa Micky for years. Can we talk business? (changing the topic) Is there gonna be a press conference? The Fighter 8/28/09 55. Yeah, five days before the fight -- .Dicky running down the street toward the restaurant, passing the crowd of people out front, 6'4", 230 lbs., sirens in the air. (puts his hand up, shakes Whoa, spucky teeth, thought you were smokin' rocks, now you're gargling with 'em? (looks away, mumbles) You're 'bout to lose your breath. I'm about to lose my what? And Dicky nails the bouncer in the gut, drops him to his knees, wind knocked out of him, then Dicky hooks his jaw... 6'4" guy dropping fast, hitting the sidewalk, sickening thud. on foot runs up, Dicky Busting open his nose, blood pouring. Dicky takes a swing at More police cars pull up. Officers jump out and slam Dicky to the ground! Dicky screams, fighting back, kicking and punching the police arresting him... We were lookin' at tape today on Belinc and think if Micky cuts off the ring in most rounds -- Dicky! Dicky Ohmygahd! Dicky! Mickey O'Keefe jumps up, starts for the door. Charlene just shakes her head, what the fuck. Alice still holding Micky's lobby card, heads outside with George, Sherry, sisters. Micky stands up. Charlene pulls him back down. The Fighter 8/28/09 56. Whoa. (glances back, shouts) Don't, Micky! don't want ya gettin' hurt before the fight! He rushes out after Alice, George, Red Dog, Sherry leaving Micky and Charlene behind. Hear more from the street. Micky can't take it, jumps up. Are you kiddin' me? Are you Are you for real? Sit down. serious? Sit down, sit. Sit down. She grabs the back of his pants.. .he drags her a little, pushes her hand off, leaves her outstretched, hair fallen over her face. Alice, George running across the street. Red Dog rushes toward the fight, tries to pull the cops away from Dicky, kicking & clawing... Another officer grabs her. Dicky's thrashing handcuffed on the ground, struggling against the officers keeping him down, crying out for help... .Micky runs out as cops bang Dicky up outside the paddy wagon. Micky runs into the middle of it all, grabs a cop's arm. Just put him in the wagon. Police tackle Micky to the sidewalk, start beating, subduing him with their flashlights... Crack! Crack! They didn't fuckin' do anything! Get off my boys! .Micky raises his arm defending himself from the long black metal flashlights, head split open bleeding. Mickyyyy! Nooooo! The Fighter 8/28/09 .Hear a cop yell, "He's a fightah, break his fuckin' hands, break his hands!" Crack! Hard metal breaking bone in Micky's left hand. Micky screams out in pain... The Fighter 8/28/09 57. between the cops and Micky and starts shoving them off him. [swings at cops] Back the fuck up! (pulling fellow cops away, trying to keep the peace) Guys, come on, back up. Cops back up from Charlene and O'Keefe... Blood spilling into Micky's eyes, holds up his left hand, which Charlene looks at. - Micky, your hands! Your hands! Separate cells, don't let' em work up some bullshit defense story. Alice runs up to Dicky as he's put into one police car, Micky into another; she drops the lobby card which is trampled on 'til it's no longer visible. Micky is led in through one door where he stands before judge; Dicky led in separately through another door to stand 15 feet from Micky -- they exchange looks -- both shackled, handcuffs, leg irons, both still wearing their bloody clothes from the fight. Hear the laundry list of charges against Dicky, "Ward one count of disturbing the peace, released on your own recognizance. .Ecklund. Three counts of Assault & Battery on a Police Officer. One count of Resisting Arrest. One count of Larceny from a Person. One count of impersonating a police officer." Alice holding 4-year-old Little Dicky in her lap starts to sob, sitting in the gallery with Tar, Pork, Sherri, Little Alice. Daughters try consoling Alice. No sign of Charlene. Karen there, ignored by Alice. camera crew filming... The Fighter 8/28/09 58. Micky stands while his cuffs are unlocked by an Dicky comes led down the hall by he slows down and leans to Micky, and stops -- We gotta talk, it was self-defense, right, say it was self defense, ya come outside, ya seen 'em beatin' on me, didn't do nuthin' -- You didn't do nuthin? Look at my hand ya selfish prick. Let's go, Dicky - (leaning back to Micky) was doin' it for you! What were you doin' for me? Officer pauses so Dicky can listen. This? Do me a favah, don't do nuthin' for me. (stung, eyes well) What ah ya gonna do without me? Micky stares as Officer pulls Dicky away, sad. cameraman filming Dicky shaking his head, being placed into a holding cell behind the courtroom. - can't believe they let Micky go. What about me? The Fighter 8/28/09 59. What'd you expect, Dick? You violated your parole. What'd do? They're aftah me. I'm fuckin' Dicky Ecklund. I'm gonna have to plead out, right, get like three yeahs. Could help talk to 'em? What's gonna happen to my movie? I'll be out in a yeah or so, maybe less with good behaviah. We can finish it then, Your part will just end with you bein' arrested. (tears in his eyes) What about my comeback? didn't do nuthin'. Who's gonna take care a Little Dicky and, what about Tommy? Micky sitting alone drinking a beer, left hand in a cast, staring at the floor. .Micky finishes another beer, throws it into the bushes and walks up to the entrance. Rings the intercom. Who is it? Micky doesn't say anything. don't wanna see you, Micky. can't take it, I'm not gonna let you or your family drag me down. ( C''nNTTNTW.1) ) The Fighter 8/28/09 60. I'm quittin', Charlene, I'm done fightin' don't need it no more. That's fuckin' stupid. What?! Why? Because it's sad you let them take it away from you, with all their stupid bullshit. - What else could do, Charlene? There's a lot you could do, Micky. Ya fathah's gotta guy he wants ya to meet. You just don't think you can do it without Dicky - Micky looks at the intercom... doesn't say anything... looks up at the apartment building. Walks away. 65aA - 65aA Dicky shivers through crack withdrawal, clinging to his bed, sweating. scratches at himself, in agony. Time lapse shows day night day night as Dicky shakes, screams, shivers. Til he stops - exhausted. Clean. 2 - Micky, depressed, one hand bandaged, roofs with George and Beaver. - -- The Fighter 8/28/09 60aaA. Raining. Micky runs into a crowded Dunkin' Donuts, tired, dark circles, out-of-shape. The Fighter 8/28/09 60aA. Everybody looking at him, some whisper. Micky's eyes wide, catches sight of Mickey O'Keefe in the back drinking coffee, reading the newspaper, still in his police uniform. Hey! The Fighter 8/28/09 (stands, hugs Micky hello) How's ya hand?! The Fighter 8/28/09 61. Looks bettah. It's good, gettin' there. Why don't ya come down to the gym if ya want? Ya fat fuck, look atcha. (looks at people staring) Now gotta worry about this movie tonight on everybody lookin' at me like did somethin' wrong, ain't my fault he's on It's bettah for ya if ya don't see it, Micky, it's just gonna make ya feel bad. [turns to everyone] What are you lookin' at? He ain't gonna be on it's his crazy brothah. People stare at them. .Dicky playing with his 4-year-old son, sitting across from Alice smoking a Lucky, three newspapers in her lap, room crowded with convicts, visitors, thick with smoke. Everybody's talkin' about the movie, Dicky, it sounds. (regretful, wary) know. (shakes his head) They're lettin' everybody on the first two tiers watch it tonight. C'mon, hit daddy with a kunckle sandwich. Bang-bang. Right in the mouth. (takes Little Dicky's hand, hits own mouth) C'mon, a knuckle sandwich! .Little Dicky hits Dicky in the mouth again. . .And Dicky pops out his fake teeth. Little Dicky cracks up laughing. The Fighter 8/28/09 61aA. (laughing with his son) - My teef, my teef, Dicky, you knocked out my teef! They're sayin' it makes you an' the city look bad. What'd they make ya do? (pops his teeth back) It wasn't supposed to work out this way. Say we did it for the kids, ma. What kids, Dicky? About drugs, and all that. Is Micky gonna watch it? You ask 'im why he don't come to see me? All do in here is think about comin' back and workin' with Micky, that's what keeps me goin'. want a second chance to do it right for him and win a title. Will ya tell him that for me? They hear a guard, "C'mon, five minutes Dicky, wrap it up." Little Dicky reaches out and gently cups his father's nose.. The Fighter 8/28/09 Dicky escorted by walks past 6' of bars where guys crowd and yell: "Dickyeee!" "Hey, Dicky! Dicky!" "Can't wait for tonight, brothah!" .Dicky heading back to his cell down the long tunnel-like hallway, stopping at the checkpoint for his strip search. The guard, Corrections Officer 1, 30s, short, stocky, opens the door to the small closet-like room, handprints on the wall. Dicky turns back around, bends over and separates his cheeks... Lookin' forward to seein' your movie tonight. .Dicky pacing his 6-by-10 cell, solid stone walls, black iron-barred door, stainless-steel sink, toilet, crucifix hanging on the wall. Dicky starts throwing punches in the air, dancing around a rope stretching from one wall to the other, make-shift clothesline drying underwear, white socks.. .over the loudspeaker, "15 minutes to movie time." Dicky glances in a small mirror hanging on the wall... The Fighter 8/28/09 63. Two prison guards supervise. Convicts cheer when they see Dicky walk in. Dicky raises his hands above his head... 73 - - NIGHTl3 .Micky sitting in the tiny kitchen, drinking beer alone, dead drunk, HBO's "High on Crack Street," a Tour Guide says, "Lowell was the birthplace of the Industrial Revolution in America, a place people came to find the American dream." BooBoo riding in a car, pointing, "That house sold crack, that one sold heroin, the one on the cornah sold crack." Jimmy, hey, sorry to rush, but wanted to make sure Kasie's not watchin' okay? Mick, got it -- want her to see it! Let her see who her uncle is! Who you ah! Who am? What are you talkin' about? Turn it off, Laurie, turn it off. Laurie up, joins Kasie, Jimmy as she watches eyes wide Dicky talking to camera, missing rotting teeth, hollowed- out eyes, skeleton-like arms, fucked-up high, tries to spark a lighter, "Whoa,-- there's Richard Pryah for ya." .Dicky laughing, sitting in the room, wall-to wall noise, cigarette smoke, convicts whistling, cheering, watching his life playing back in front of him on "You shoulda seen me then! My wife Debbie was the prettiest girl in Lowell, and my daughtah Kerry, want Kerry to be proud a me now. Who knows what my life woulda been like, ya know." Convicts hollering, "Dickyge!" "Dicky!" "Dickyeee!" The Fighter 8/28/09 64. Dicky jumps up & puts on a show, grinning, throwing punches in the air... Court officers leading Dicky out of the courtroom. Camera zooming in on Alice holding Little Dicky in her arms, both crying, sobbing. Zooming tighter on Little Dicky's face, tears falling down his cheeks, snot dripping from his nose... his own face behind bars in a holding cell, tears in his eye, didn't do nuthin'. Who's gonna take care a Little Dicky and, what about Tommy?" .Dicky stands there for a moment watching himself, his son, his life on starts shaking his head no no no no. He turns still shaking, and heads for the payphones in the back of the room, ignoring all the noise, cheering, yelling. He picks up one of the phones, dials 0 + his mother's number, hears the operator, "Operator." Collect call from Dicky. He hears a busy signal, operator say, "Sorry, that line is busy, sir." Dicky looks back up at one of the TVs, Alice and Little Dicky sitting in the living room watching a tape of 24- year-old Dicky fighting Sugar Ray Leonard on He hangs up the phone and walks out of the day room... .Dicky drifts through the cafeteria, darkness lit only by fluorescent lights from the open kitchen, three inmate cooks chatting, cleaning. Nobody even sees Dicky, a ghost floating through the gloom. He opens a large unlocked black metal mesh door in the back, heads down the stairs, at the bottom another large door. Dicky opens it... .He steps into.. .the Trap, the room in which inmates arrive to be processed, where a guard, Corrections Officer 2, 30s, tall, sits. (stands, surprised) Dicky!? What're you doin' here? The Fighter 8/28/09 65. gotta go home, Harry. gotta tell Dicky it's gonna be okay, he don't gotta cry. (steps out, puts a hand on Get back upstairs before write ya up. - He don't gotta cry no more. don't know what you're talking about, Dicky, but you can't be here. You gotta go back up. Dicky looks at Corrections Officer 2, turns and heads back. .Dicky walking down the dimly lit hall, shadows dancing off walls, distant cheering, screaming echoing... stepping into the dark kitchen... Dicky sinks to his knees.. .onto the hard grey cement floor.. .and bows his head to pray. .Alice cries as she watches "High On Crack Street" with George and couple of her daughters. Little Dicky comes in. (wiping away her tears No, sweetheaht, go back upstairs, you can't watch this. [into phone] Micky, can you believe what they're doin' to us? .Micky on the phone, upset, watching Ma, know, but he did it to himself. The Fighter 8/28/09 66. What was he thinkin! They set him up! Micky's eyes widen with surprise. He hasn't seen her in a while. Maybe they got the drugs far 'im an' the movie -- (staring at Charlene) It's very sad, ma, gotta call ya back. He hangs up. He and Charlene stare at each other, taking it in, emotional, awkward. She laughs a little through tears. - .they hug. Micky crying into her shoulder and hair, Charlene holding onto him, she backs him into his the fall to the bed, kissing. - Next morning. Micky's hands grab dingy white boxing wraps out of the darkness of his messy closet, faded red gloves, throws them into an old blue gym bag, leaves. Charlene sits up in bed, groggy, gets up in Micky's t-shirt, goes out. Micky stands at the top of the stairs, old blue gym bag slung over his shoulder, early morning. He looks out at morning... Charlene runs out; Micky pauses on stairs. (pauses on stairs) wanna meet that guy George told you about. [pause] The one with the cab company. Charlene nods, Micky disappears down the stairs; she runs to the edge of the balcony, looks down, waits, in a moment Micky's back appears from under the porch, walking away. She watches him go. The Fighter 8/28/09 Micky walks -- silently -- camera tracks with him, on his face. Then let's him go into distance. The Fighter 8/28/09 67. Days later: under Mickey O'Keefe's watchful gaze.; Pan reveals: Charlene, George, and 45, Italian, dark, mustache, tinted glasses, thick dark hair, watch. .Micky stops jumping, catching his breath. Kisses Charlene hello. Nobody keeps tryin' like this kid, swear to God someone up there's watchin' over him, he's far from done. He'll take five punches to land one, that's how he fights, that's who he is. Micky this is Sal LoNano. Micky shakes Sal LoNano's hand. You own a cab company, you're a good businessman, right? already made some calls. Spoke to Bobby Tags and he says we can get a small fight, somethin' local to staht back with. Get ya confidence back. Right, go from there. [claps his hands together in an idiosyncratic - Micky, know ya dad wants this guy to manage ya, and I'll train ya on one condition. No crazy-time nonsense. The Fighter 8/28/09 68. No Dicky, no Alice. If they come back, I'm gone, Mick. can't deal with the bullshit, no offense Georgie. None taken, I'm the one who's gonna get his balls cut off anyway. George holds his arms up as pots, plates come flying at him. Alice looking around for something else to throw at him. George grabs her and holds on before she can hit him... You traitor motherfucker! Those pans hurt, you crazy bitch! hadda help Micky! With that scumbag LoNano?! Now gotta save Micky! Alice and most of the sisters piling into Alice's car. Micky and Charlene make out in their underwear on the bed when a car screeches up outside. The intercom rings. .Charlene looks out her window, sees on her porch while Alice and pile out of the car and up her walk. Holy shit. Your mothah's here with your sistahs. Don't answah the door. I'm not hidin' from your crazy fuckin' family, Micky! The Fighter 8/28/09 69. OPENS...and Charlene stands there with Micky slightly behind her. Hi. Well, well, well, look at this. Look at what? You can't hide from us, Micky. He's not hiding. wasn't talkin' to you, was talkin' to my son. What're you doin' Micky? I'm not hidin' from nobody - Ya not helpin' yaself with ya fathah's scumbag friend, and ya can't turn ya back on Dicky, all he evah wanted was for you to be World Champ. Micky's a grown man, he can make his own decisions. Keep ya mouth shut. I'm his muthah. You need Dicky, no one trains you like him, ya can't do it without What else can he do, Dicky's in prison! The Fighter 8/28/09 70. Why ya always lookin' out for him, Ma? Wes? Why's it always Dicky, Dicky, Dicky - I'm lookin' out for My boys are everything to me. had nine children, loved all a you the same. You got a funny way a showin' it -- Yeah, a funny way, Ma, Dicky's a great trainah, love him to death, but do ya evah think all the othah damage he's done? Lettin' him get beat up, get his hand broken. (lunges at Charlene) Are you crazy, Micky's my baby! Micky grabs her before she gets to Charlene. Don't ever lay a hand on Charlene. Skank. She's a fuckin' bah skank! Don't call me skank, I'll rip that hair right outta ya fuckin' head! Red Dog lunges at Charlene and takes poke at her; Charlene grabs Red Dog's face and shoves her.. .then backhands Beaver, who's grabbing her hair, sloppy like a bar fight. (lets go of his mother, breaking up the fight) For the love a Christ! The Fighter 8/28/09 71. (quiet, crying) They look at each other, tearful, heartbreaking. Red Dog and Beaver put their arms around her and walk her to the car. (crying as they walk) What's happening? My God, what is happening to everyone? don't undahstand it. George pulls up in roofing truck, starts to get out, sees Alice and sisters, looks scared, pulls out. Ward vs. Castillo - Sheraton Inn Lowell - August 19, 1994. Micky getting undressed, getting ready for the fight. Charlene sitting on the bed watching him. Micky stands till in the mirror, muttering under his breath as he goes over combinations and scenarios in his head. Hour later. Micky leaving his room, head moving side-to- side, warmed up, sweat dripping, gloves, robe on. . .Charlene next to him, Mickey O'Keefe, Art Ramalho, andcutman Ed Aliano walking in front of him.. .Micky sees "'Irish' Mickey Ward" on the back of O'Keefe's corner jacket. (shakes his head, on edge) do not spell my name with a friggin' Micky stands in his robe, boxing trunks, gloves, in the elevator with the others, nods to a young couple and their two kids, rolls his neck, shakes his legs, Mickey O'Keefe rubs his shoulders. Young couple not sure what to make of it..Ding! The elevator finally arrives. Micky lets the family out first, then he, Charlene, Mickey O'Keefe, Art Ramalho and Ed Aliano step off. The Fighter 8/28/09 72. Rd 4 - 2:08 (time running down). Micky's chin almost atop CASTILLO's, 33, 5 9", 144 lbs, shoulder... throws a left hook to Castillo's ribs...Mickey O'Keefe shouting from ringside... Charlene cheering with Sal LoNano...George ...Micky follows with a short right uppercut, then a hook.. .And Castillo goes crashing down to the canvas! Tries to get up, stumbling... Referee waves the fight over... hometown standing- room-only crowd explodes cheering, screaming for Micky... .Micky raises his hands in victory for the first time in years, looks over to his corner...no Dicky. Micky O'Keefe ducks through the ropes and hugs Micky, whispering something in his ear. Charlene follows, hugging Micky. Weeks later. Dicky's running, shadowboxing around a track, gray hooded sweatshirt soaked with sweat, noisy crowded square 75-by-75, solid brick up 20-feet, razor-spiraled barbed wire. He slows down, walks, alone, quiet within himself. We watch him for a moment. Over loudspeaker, "Visit for Dicky Ecklund." .Micky and Dicky sit facing each other. know you know what I'm doin'. I'm sure Alice, everybody else, told you, wanted to tell you to your face, myself. got new management, I'm workin' with Mickey O'Keefe, and it's going good. Yeah, sure, they got ya fighin' Alfonso Sanchez. On (makes a face) Yeah, HBO's all invested in the Mexican, Micky, wake up, they don't care if you get killed. Toma did it. He's usin' ya like a steppin'- stone for Sanchez. The Fighter 8/28/09 73. Of course, how could stand a chance without the Great Dicky Ecklund in my corner? You didn't care if got killed with Mungin, now all of a sudden, you're worried Sanchez is gonna hurt me, why? Cuz you're stuck here and you can't be center of attention no more. seen that Mexican fight, Micky! He hits very hard! 15 knockouts! Undefeated! Are you crazy? That idiot LoNano went right for it! He's usin' you to steal money! wasted my 20s in bad fights set by you and Alice! finally gotta good thing goin', shut up and be happy for me! What's ya plan, Mick? How ya gonna fight Sanchez? ain't here to talk about that! Oh yeah, you are. Watch the fight, you'll see the plan. They won't let us watch the fight cuz it's 'violent'! They let us watch the stupid documentary on crack but not my own brothah fightin'! [people look at them]. Are ya scared? Are ya embarraassed cuz ya don't even have a plan? Just tell me. Ya gonna shit on it no mattah what say! The Fighter 8/28/09 won't shit on it. Come on, just tell me. (thinks, then, grudgingly) Go toe to toe; ovahhand right in the middle rounds. He's weak against the overhand right. Who came up with that? Fatty O'Keefe? Fuck you. I'm gonna go. (Stands] Ya gotta run against this guy! Move, let 'im punch himself out The Fighter 8/28/09 74. Take 'im to the body, Micky! Get inside. Switch stances like ya workin' his right, hit 'im on the left. Be careful, don't switch outside. (starting to go) You're not me. You can't be me. You had a hard enough time being you when you had your chance. I'll fight Sanchez the way fight. Walks out. (stands and shouts) I'm about the way you fight, you moron! You know I'm right! As Micky opens the door his face registers Dicky's words. Sanchez vs. Ward - Thomas & Mack Center, Las Vegas. Micky making his way down the aisle for the Sanchez fight, emerald trunks, robe with white trim, "Mickey Ward" spelled wrong on the back, crowd cheering, . .Mickey O'Keefe and cutman 62, gray hair, glasses, right behind Micky, emerald "Mickey Ward" corner 'aackets. Rd 5 - :48 (time running down). Micky beat up, running away, face red, scrape on his left cheek, cut above his left eye.. .Hard punching 25, 5'7", 140 lbs, black trunks, chasing after him.. .Charlene screaming sitting ringside with Sal LoNano, George, Donna, Beaver, their husbands, sitting behind them.. . .crowd all around booing Micky, hear one of the announcers, (the real audio), mean, Ward's just running away. The Fighter 8/28/09 75. It's awful. know Sanchez is strong, really strong, but can't understand why Ward's not fighting back. This fight's supposed to be a reality check to see where he's at. He's a better fighter than this. He lust keeps running away." .Sanchez catches Micky, lands a right and a left ...Bam! Bam!...Micky reels against the ropes... Sanchez hits him with a right--Right--Left hook--Left hook.. .Micky tries to tie Sanchez up...Bam!...Left hook! The bell rings. End of Rd 5. .Charlene watches Micky stumble to the corner. Mickey O'Keefe inside the ring pouring water into Micky's mouth, Al Gavin leaning over, working to stop the bleeding above Micky's left eye. (stands up, shouting) Come on Micky! Stop dickin' around! (kneels in front of Micky) Breathe, Mick, breathe. Catch this sunovabitch with an ovah hand right, ya hear me? He won't see it comin'. (nods, spits out water) He hits like bricks. When he misses it hurts. Rd 6 - 2:01 (time running down).Micky running again, around & around the ring. Alice stands holding the phone to her ear as she watches the fight on Little Alice, Sherri, Tar, Pork, all watching the fight with her. He's fightin' scared, Dicky. Runnin', not hittin' back, O'Keefe looks mad. He's gonna get hurt - The Fighter 8/28/09 76. .Dicky on a pay phone, convicts on all the phones, more waiting their turn behind the yellow line. No, Ma, it's okay, it's okay, he's doin' what told' im. He's doin' it! as necessary: Micky switches stances outside...Sanchez counters with a booming left uppercut ...Bam! Micky drops to one knee! Oh Jesus! What happened?! Knocked down with an uppah cut changin' stances outside! (on phone, screaming) told 'im inside, c'mon, Micky! .Micky gets back to his feet. . .Referee gives him a standing eight-count, "Three... Four...Five..." (looks at Micky) You alright? (eyes wide, blood Yuh. .Halpern motions to start fighting. Micky immediately runs again, staying away from Sanchez, hear another announcer, (the real audio), "The referee should just go ahead and stop this fight. The Fighter 8/28/09 77. He knows that Micky doesn't want to be here." Hear "This is really one of the saddest kinds of fights in boxing. Micky Ward is 32-years-old. He's here because he needs the money. He's taking a beating. Getting humiliated." Micky just keeps running. The bell rings. End of Rd 6. They're sayin' they should stop the fight, they never seen such an embarrassin' performance, oh it's awful, Dick. (eyes wide, starting to get nervous, on phone) He's gotta go inside, Ma, he's gotta go inside when the time's right. He's gotta - .Micky makes his way over to his corner, bleeding from above his left eye, left cheek.. .Mickey O'Keefe jumps into the ring... Sal LoNano leaves his seat and goes to the corner, Charlene follows him. (shouts at Micky) Why you running around so much?! Don't run around no more (yells back at Sal) Shut the fuck up, Sal! You're blowin' it! .Mickey O'Keefe pours water into Micky's mouth. Referee Mitch Halpern comes over to the corner. Ya gotta show me somethin' soon, Mick, or I'm gonna stop it. The Fighter 8/28/09 78. He's good! He's good! (looks up at Micky from They're gonna stop the fight! (leans out ropes, angry)) Don't stop the fight,-- got it. Let's Get ya frickin' punches off! (through the ropes) Will ya siddown, got it! know what I'm doin', Jesus -- (wipes Vaseline over don't know what's happenin' out there, maybe you wanna fuckin' tell me, cuz we're losin' all six rounds. Is that what ya want? You want me to stop it? I'm gonna stop this fight, Micky. sweah to Christ, I'll stop it. don't know what ya doin' but ya bettah do it soon. (tense teasrs, holds phone, watches Round 7. Sanchez'll try to finish 'im right now. (tearing, wipes Dicky on the phone at prison, leans head on wall, tense, muttering to himself, shakes his head, tearing up. Prisoners watch, Aw, come on, Micky. The Fighter 8/28/09 79. Rd 7 - 3:00 (time running down). Sanchez comes out from his corner, no fear of Micky. The bell rings. Micky meets him in the middle of the ring...Sanchez pounds Micky's body ...Bam! Bam! Bam!...Micky shakes his head, unloads a hard left hook and takes a step closer... .Micky sees excactly what Dicky told him-mapped out like dance steps on the canvas. Micky moves inside on Sanchez He switches stances workin' his right.. .Then he hits him on the left. That's his punch. He owns it. He and Dicky worked it a million times. Sanchez goes down to his hands and knees like he's been shot! Hear Lampley, "What am looking at? This is one of the most extraordinary things I've ever seen in boxing!"...Sanchez crawling on the canvas in pain. Halpern counting him out, "Six... Seven..." Micky runs to a neutral corner; then jumps with his arms in the air when Sanchez does not move. (jumping up & down) (shocked, eyes wide) Just like told 'im! Mickey O'Keefe jumping up and down in the ring together as Sal LoNano and George jump up in Micky's corner. Charlene jumps up and down crying and laughing. Sal hugs him, Micky pushes him off. .Micky drops to one knee in his corner and crosses himself, blood dripping down his face. The Fighter 8/28/09 80. Micky sitting on a table, Ed Aliano fixing up his face, cleaning up the blood. Charlene, Mickey O'Keefe, George, Donna, Beaver, husbands, other hanger-onners, celebrating, happy, drunk. Sal LoNano walks in. Micky, Mike Toma just told me something very interesting. Micky, Charlene look at Sal, unsure. Remember Alice told ya Mike Toma was usin' ya like a steppin stone for Sanchez and said she was fulla shit? Turns out she was right. Toma said Sanchez had a title shot if he won tonight. Micky and Charlene look unsure as they take this i Holy Christ, that's beautiful. Why? Why is the beautiful? Now it's Micky's shot. Shea Neary in London for the title. Charlene kisses Micky. Everybody slapping Micky on the back, hugging him, jumping up & down around him, celebrating him, a world title shot. Micky smiling in the middle of the celebration, then, distracted, something's missing. Months later. Dicky walks out of prison into the bright sun, three-story brick building high on a hill, wearing the same clothes he was arrested in over a year ago... stretches out his back, heads down the stairs toward the driveway, 30-foot chain-link fence, high razor-spiraled barbed wire. The Fighter 8/28/09 81. .Dicky sees his mother's Lincoln parked at a security gate, starts to run. Alice gets out of her car, Little Dicky, now 6-years-old, jumping out the other side. (gives Dicky a big hug) Oh Dicky, thank Gahd, everythin's gonna be again. (hugging his mother) Easy, Ma, my back's killin' me. Thank god you're out! Charlene and that LoNano charactah are robbin' 'im blind, Sal's sayin' ain't no money for spahhin' pahtnahs! I'll make it right with Micky, I'll apologize, it'll all be okay. (looks at Dicky like he's What are you talkin' about? You're Dicky Ecklund. You got nuthin' to apologize for. .Dicky closing the door to his mother's car, Little Dicky in his arms, McDonald's in his hands.. .Alice gets out after him. Dicky looks up at the decaying brick warehouse, still abandoned except for the 1st floor, broken windows still on all the upper floors. Dicky steps through the doorway, holding Little Dicky, McDonald's, Alice behind them...sees Micky hitting the pads with Micky O'Keefe in the center ring... Charlene, George, Sal, Art Ramalho watching ringside, Ray Ramalho cleaning up the place. The Fighter 8/28/09 82. (looks around, shouts) Quackah! .Micky stops punching, smiles when he sees his brother, sweat dripping... and jumps out of the ring, leaving Mickey O'Keefe behind holding the pads... Charlene, George, Sal, Art, Ray, other fighters in the gym look at Dicky, some call out, "Dicky!" "Dickyee!" "Dicky!" then Micky and Charlene. -- Dicky Donuts lookit ya! They let ya keep the new teeth! (nods, smiles) Hey, why ain't Micky spahhin'!? Georgie, what're you doin' outta the house? Charlene just shakes her head at Dicky. Micky kisses his mother hello. (puts a short beefy arm around Dicky's neck) Dicky, meet my friend Sal LoNano. Dicky glances warily at Sal for brief eye contact. (emotional, defended) Hey. (turns to Ray Ramalho) Ra Ray! (high fives Ray) O'Keefe stares, fuming, looks to Micky, who glances nervously, but says nothing. wanna make an amend to everyone here, know done a lot of stupid things, and wanna say I'm sorry, and that's ovah. They all look at him. I'm very grateful to be back in this gym with you all. gotta lotta time to make up for, and wanna make the best of it. The Fighter 8/28/09 You deserve the best, Micky, you have a chance to go all the way and I'm ready to be there for ya. Charlene and O'Keefe look upset. Awkward, everyone looking at Dicky who nods, pleased, and walks into the locker room. O'Keefe and Charlene stare intensely at Micky, who looks somber. The Fighter 8/28/09 83. Micky goes into the locker room. Dicky changing, Little Dicky watching him, both still eating McDonald's. Micky walks into the locker room. can't tell ya how good it is to be back. You look good, your eyes are clear. look good, right? Alice said lock up mighta been the best thing to happen to me. got clean. got clear up here (taps his head). That's beautiful, Dick. There's somethin' we gotta talk about. Hold on, wanted to say' been waitin' for this day, Micky, been waitin' the whole time was away. It kept me goin', it kept me alive, the idea of us workin' togethah again. Micky looks at him, nods. It's breaking his heart. made a promise to them that wouldn't work with you again. Dicky takes this in. Stunned. The Fighter 8/28/09 Ever? had to. After everything that happened. I'm sorry. Dicky is hurt, stunned. The whole time was away -- I'm glad you're back, I'm glad you're doing good, don't know what else to say. The Fighter 8/28/09 84. Micky, tears in his eyes, stares at Dicky a moment, nods, leaves the locker room. All eyes watch Micky messed up now -- Charlene, O'Keefe, George, Alice, Little Dicky, others. He steps back into the ring with O'Keefe. O'Keefe looks unsure as he holds the mits. Micky's about to throw when O'Keefe turns, looks. (CnNTTNTTF. )1 The Fighter 8/28/09 85. Dicky walks back into the gym as Micky is about to work out with O'Keefe. What happened? He says can't work with him. That's not right. [Dicky starts to leave] He never woulda won Sanchez without me! That's fuckin' bullshit! Take that back! Don't talk to my mother my mother like that. Why don't you ask Micky? They gotta go. If we're gonna train. They have to go, Micky. Why don't you ask Micky if he woulda won Sanchez without Dicky? Ask him. They all look at Micky. He is torn up over this as he considers it before he speaks and they all watch, tense. wouldn'ta won Sanchez without Dicky. How can you say that to O'Keefe? Because it's true. went in with our plan and it wasn't working, switched to what learned with Dicky. Micky looks at O'Keefe, who is hurt. The Fighter 8/28/09 85aA. wouldn'ta won it without you, either, O'Keefe, you know that. You got the focus and confidence from O'Keefe and Sal and your father and me! You were lucky to win that fight, Dicky saved him! We saved him! Dickya junkbag! The Fighter 8/28/09 Fuck you, Charlene, I'm 8 months sober. I'm sure you'll need somethin' for your back now that you're out. O'Keefe's in the same boat am, one day at a time, why's it all right for him to be here, but not me? I'm blood. I'm the one fighting, not you, not you, and not know what need. And you need Dicky? Micky roils as he makes this decision. want Dicky back. And want you, Charlene, and want O'Keefe, and my family. You can't do that to us. You sound like them now. Maybe you're just like them and that's where you belong. She looks at him, turns and walks out of the gym, followed by O'Keefe, who looks sadly back at Micky. Everything happens for a reason, this could be for the best, honey. Micky watches Dicky get geared up with gloves, headgear, mouth guard by Art Ramalho. gears up Micky. The Fighter 8/28/09 86. Alice's eyes glow. Dicky Ecklund, the pride a Lowell! This rankles Micky as he and Dicky square off. was trainin' in jail, so I'm ready. The two brothers spar, falling right back into it as Alice, George, others watch. Dicky moving around the ring... He snaps Micky's head with a combination. Micky starts banging him with body shots...Bam! Bam! Bam!...Dicky tries to make Micky miss. Micky grabs him tying him up.. .Dicky pushes Micky away, ducks, jabs.. .Micky traps Dicky's left under his elbow/arm, pulling it. . .Turning Dicky so his back is exposed, drilling him in the kidney. Dicky goes down on one knee in pain... And Micky comes over the top with a straight right off the back of Dicky's head.. .Dicky down hard! Face hitting canvas, blood running from his nose into his mouth... The Fighter 8/28/09 Daddy, Daddy! (CUNTTNTTF.n' The Fighter 8/28/09 87. (holds Little Dicky) Alice, take him home. [Little Alice leaves with Little Dicky]. What're you doin', Micky? What's the matter with you! Can this be my fight, for once, Alice, huh, just once, maybe just this one time, not for Dicky? know you think he's comin' back, he's 40 years old and doesn't have a tooth in his head that's his own-- can go ten more rounds, let's go- Let your brother talk. I'm Shea Neary, let's go, I'm Shea Neary, how ya gonna work me? Shut up! Shea Neary -- Shut up! Dicky, hurt, stops. I'm the one who has this fight, this is my chance for a title, and won't get another one after this. Am being selfish? Am saying Micky, Micky, Micky? I'm sorry, thought was fighting for a championship. He throws his gear off and starts to go when she runs to him, embraces him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. didn't know. The Fighter 8/28/09 87aA. didn't know what was doing, don't know why did what did, did the best could, I'll do better, don't want to hurt you, Micky, love you so much. As she holds him, Micky looks frustrated, but tears up in spite of himself and nods. Dicky throw gear as he leaves via the main door. George runs after Dicky outside the gym, shouts. (trying to keep up with Come on back-- No, gotta take care a something. Micky wants you, want you. Do ya, Georgie? The Fighter 8/28/09 We gotta do this for Micky, come on. You're my son, too, Dick. Come on. You're my poppa, George. gotta take care a something. He takes off, leaving George behind. know what that means, don't do it, Dick. Come back. But Dicky keeps going. George watches, sad. The Fighter 8/28/09 88. The Fighter 8/28/09 The Fighter 8/28/09 89. Sun starting to die in the sky. Dicky limping down the street, still sweaty in shorts, t-shirt, hears people shouting out his name, "Dicky!" "Dicky!" "Dicky!" The Fighter 8/28/09 90. Dicky walks down the street, waves to familiar Cambodian faces and others. Approaches the crack house. BooBoo, Wolfie, some other crackheads hanging out front. (see Dicky, shout) Dicky's back! Hey, Dicky! Dicky limps toward them, slows down, looks at BooBoo, the house behind then continues to walk-then starts to run. Dicky running down the street... Dicky pushes the buzzer, sweat dripping. Charlene, it's Dicky. Get off my porch, you piece of shit. Dicky presses the buzzer and won't stop. (over the buzzer) You fuckin' asshole! Charlene opening her door...Dicky standing in the doorway, sweating, agitated. know you can't fuckin' stand me. Really? What makes ya say that? got no use for you eithah, but my bruthah loves ya and ya can't walk away 'cause a me. He don't deserve that. If you want me to quit, I'll quit. You're full a shit. The Fighter 8/28/09 91. Sweah to God, I'll quit if it makes you go back. Micky's got a chance to do somethin' nevah did - Oh, the Sugah Ray Leonahd fight was my chance, was great, fought Sugah Ray Leonahd--- Fuck you, Charlene. came here to make things right - let's make things right, numbah one: Ya didn't knock down Sugah Ray Leonahd, he tripped. was in the fuckin' ring with 'im, Chalene, don't you think know what happened? But went ten rounds with Sugar Ray Leonard, what the fuck have you evah done? Is your life so great? She doesn't say anything. Your eyes are red, you're hung ovah, don't tell me you're not. Ya life sucks. Maybe, the part without Micky sucks. Maybe never did anything special like you, but love Micky and want him to have his chance. Then leave me alone. He needs me, you heard him, and know he needs you, so let's spare him the bullshit from either one of us. She looks at him. Nods grudgingly. The Fighter 8/28/09 92. I'll see ya in Micky's corner, otherwise go fuck yourself. Dicky nods, walks off the porch. .Micky slams the door of his car, walks to see: Dicky leaving. - What the hell are you doin' here? We worked it out fah you. Ask her. It's all together. Micky looks up and sees Charlene standing in the door. She nods. He looks at Dicky. Good. Get O'Keefe back, too. Micky nods, heads toward Charlene. - hey, Mick, you think knocked down Sugah Ray Leonahd? Micky pauses, looks at his brother, says nothing. You went ten rounds, and he never hurt you. You were my hero. (walking away, back was... He walks away. The Fighter 8/28/09 93. (calls after him) Do you want a ride home? (shakes his head, limps Nah, I'm good. I'm good. Micky watches his brother walk away; Charlene hugs Micky's arm. Neary vs. Ward, Light Welterweight Title Weigh-In - Hilton London Olympia Hotel, London. Dicky, Alice, Charlene, George, Sal, O'Keefe bicker as Micky stands on edge of press conference. should be the one standin' there next to him, I'm his trainah, his brothah and my mothah-- Been there from the staht -- Me and O'Keefe got him through Nobody goes on stage. Just me and the manager, that's how it's done by the professionals. don't wanna hear anothah word. Micky & Dicky standing together watching 30, 5'8", 140 lbs, hard looking, flat nose, short-cropped hair, square jaw, shirt, pants off, underwear only, being weighed-in by British Boxing Commissioners, officials. Neary's manager, 41, bald, glasses, by his side, yapping at reporters, microphones, cameras. (thick Liverpool accent) - Shea's been sleepin' on a concrete floor in an empty apahtment, livin' by 'imself away from 'is family. The Fighter 8/28/09 94. Dicky whispers intoMicky's ear...Micky smiles, putshisarm around his brother.Sal LoNano standing behind thescale, hear a commissioner shout, "Neary,-- 9 stone, 13 pounds!" Photographers snapping shots, reporters shouting questions, "Hey, Micky, what about you?" Nah, ain't gonna sleep on no floor. like my bed an' my girlfriend too much - He waves at Charlene in the crowd. Reporters laugh. Neary glares at Micky and steps off the scale. Micky sees Alice squeezed way in the back of the room with George, both all dressed up, new clothes, hair done up. Hey, Ma, Dad, come on up here! Alice and George start heading toward the front of the room, Alice looking at all the cameras, smiling, she's back in the spotlight. She's the belle of the ball. (to the reporters) My muthah used to manage both of us, me and Dicky both. Neithah of us would be here if it weren't for her, right? No shit, Mick, she's our muthah - Reporters laugh, shout, "How long were you their manager for, Mrs. Ward?" (smiles at all the cameras.. .her one well- been managin' both of 'em my whole life, honey. Reporters laugh. Micky & Dicky laugh. Micky sees Charlene shake her head and smile despite herself. (Liverpool accent, snaps) Why the hell's ya mothah up here, this ain't no place for old ladies. The Fighter 8/28/09 95. Alice turns to Neary like she's gonna fucking hit him. Dicky puts an arm around her. Photographers yell, "Let's eeta Picture, boys!" "Face off!" Micky shakes his head, stands across from Neary. Neary glares at Micky trying to intimidate him. "Micky, it's your first fight overseas, and it's in Shea's hometown, you worried about that?" - You can have the whole country behind ya, but it's only gonna be me and him in the ring, right? Neary vs. Ward, Light Welterweight Title -Olympia Grand Hall. Crowd streaming into Olympia Grand Hall, stunning Victorian architecture, barrel-vaulted roof. Neary fans singing, waving Irish flags, painted green faces. .Micky & Dicky stop at the top of a long aisle down to the ring, both looking out at the screaming crowd, 11,000 Neary fans ...an producer with a headset holding up a hand. Micky pops his yellow gloves together, white trunks, robe, black trim, "MickyWard spelled right, Dicky stretches out his back, kicking the nervousness out of his legs, "Micky Ward" on his white corner jacket. . .Sal LoNano, the 2nd in the corner, and cutman Al Gavin behind them. (turns to Sal, on edge) Where's his song, Sal? You gotta be good for somethin'. dunno why you gotta be in the cornah anyways - Make sure you don't do somethin' stupid. .Whitesnake's "Here Go Again" begins playing over the sound system... Why dontchya try singin', Sal, maybe you can do that - (nods, singing the song quietly to himself) "Now don't know where I'm goin' But sure know where been." The Fighter 8/28/09 96. Dicky looks at his brother and starts quietly singing along with him. . .walking down the aisle together, crowd booing, whistling, screaming... Sal LoNano and Al Gavin following, Whitesnake singing, "And here go again on my own/Goin' down the only road I've ever known. Like a drifter was born to walk alone." .Micky climbs into the ring, Dicky helps him take off his robe... lights go dark, green spotlights shine, the Pogues rollicking "The Irish Rover" plays...Micky & Dicky watch Shea Neary making his way down the aisle, black trunks, no robe, green gloves, handler behind him holding up the title belt, another waving a big Irish flag. .. Crowd cheering, dancing, singing along... .Dicky crosses himself, kisses his fingers... Micky sees Charlene sitting ringside in the dark, flashing green lights, and gives her a little wave... Charlene waves back, mouths, love you. Kick ass!" Alice and George sitting a couple rows behind her. Neary walks toward the ring, pounding himself hard in the face, jaw, forehead with both gloves... .Micky and Neary standing face-to-face in the middle of the ring, Dicky rubbing his brother's neck ...Neary leans in and presses his forehead against Micky's forehead...Referee red shirt, black bow-tie, giving the fighters pre-fight instructions. Come out when ya hear the bell, and don't piss about. Shake hands, both of ya. .Micky reaches out to touch gloves with Neary...Neary will not touch gloves, instead, to Micky's surprise, he pushes his forehead into Micky's. Ref separates them, Micky again reaches to touch gloves but Neary will not. (walks to Dicky in his - You see that? I'm gonna kick his ass. Good. Go right at him, staht early for once! The Fighter 8/28/09 97. Rd 1 - 3:00 (time running down). The bell rings. Micky and Neary meet in the middle of the ring, hear one of the announcers, (the real audio), "The big challenge for Ward is to get off to a faster start than is customary for him. Micky Ward a notoriously slow starter, Shea Nearv an ultra-fast starter. And that's the question that hovers over round one, will Ward be ready for the fight." Neary takes it right to Micky, whistling shots hammering his body ...Bam! Bam! Bam! Micky stands his ground and catches Neary with short uppercuts... Standing forehead-to- forehead in the middle of the ring. . .Micky taps Neary on the side of the head, drops down and drills a left hooks into Neary's ribs ...Bam!...Neary grimaces, lowers his elbow... 1:47 (time running down) ...Micky throws another hook-- Uppercut--Uppercut--Hook...Neary fires back, unloading wide rights into Micky's body...Bam! Bam! Bam!...Micky takes the punches and answers. Both fighters in close, trading back & forth, hear HBO's Larry Merchant (the real audio), "Forehead- to-forehead. And Ecklund I'm sorry, Ward's,-- the right side of Ward is red from the body punches being thrown by Neary." Hear Lampley, "Ward's coming out trying to match Neary blow for blow! And now Neary starts to come on and take the last 30-.seconds .Nearv fires Ward!" Micky goes sprawling into the ropes, almost falling out of the ring, only the ropes holding him up! Crowd on its feet screaming for blood... Charlene, Alice, George all yelling for Micky. Dicky screaming, :20 (time running down) ... Lampley, "Ward's still hurt. He's trying to hold on. He eats an uppercut. fighter cannot be saved by the bell in any round "...Neary moves in for the kill.. .Micky trying to hold onto him, hear HBO's (the real audio), "Ward should stay still. His legs aren't under him.". Neary attacking wildly...Micky's out on his feet, stumbling drunk. The bell rings. End of Rd 1. .Dicky jumps onto the apron, forgetting the stool...hear Lampley, "Ward is out on his feet." Micky standing unsteady, hear Merchant, "They don't have the stool up there fast enough!" Dicky holding up Micky, blood from Micky's mouth spilling all over Dicky's shoulder, chest, white corner jacket... The Fighter 8/28/09 You got the Elvis leg, Mick, jump, c'mon, Micky, jump with me, we gotta get ya legs back, jump with The Fighter 8/28/09 98. (screaming at Sal) Give him the stool! Where's the stool! Shut up! Get outta here! He needs to sit! Jump with me! The Fighter 8/28/09 99. Micky jumps with Dicky ...two brothers lumping, jumping like little kids.. .Referee Mickey Vann motioning Micky back into the center of the ring... (leans close into his brother before he goes, Go aftah 'im so he don't think ya hurt, Mick, stay off the fuckin' ropes! .Dicky heads out of the ring... crosses himself, kisses his fingers and climbs out through the ropes, his brother's blood all over him. Rd 2 - 3:00 (time running down). Neary comes out of his corner ready to put Micky away... crowd still standing screaming for blood. He gets Micky right back on the ropes. Go aftah 'im! Get off the ropes! Micky throws a right, going right after Neary. Neary caught off-guard, steps back, letting Micky off the ropes. Micky keeps throwing, legs still unsteady. Neary flicks out a jab, keeping his distace. Foreman, think Neary's making a big, big mistake. He's allowing Micky to recover. He knows Micky's a veteran who's been hurt before, knows what to do when he's hurt. But he doesn't know if he's still hurt or not." .Micky waking back up, getting his legs back under him, hitting Neary with a left to the body--Left uppercut ...Neary answers, landing a left hook to Micky's chin--Left hook--Left hook. The Fighter 8/28/09 100. Lampley, "And now Neary comes back again, and now Ward!" Micky answers with a short right--Uppercut...Bam! Bam!...hear Merchant, "This isn't entertainment. This isn't business. This is fighting!" .Micky taking deep breaths, Al Gavin in the ring working on a two-inch gouge under Micky's left eye, Dicky leaning through the ropes, pouring water in Micky's bloody mouth. (inches from his face, just the two of them) Don't take unnecessary punishment, you're not a punchin' bag, don't let him abuse you! You hear me? We been waitin' our whole lives for this! It's all been leading up to right now, Micky! This is your time, Micky! blew it, but you don't have to. Take all ya emotion and pain from me all we done and use it out there right now. Don't let 'em take it away from you, Micky! Do you hear me? Micky looks at his brother, nods, turns spits out blood and water. Dicky Micky stands, turns to Charlene sitting ringside; Dicky puts the mouth piece into Micky's mouth. She's on her feet staring at her man. Alice and George on their feet, staring as well. Rd 3 - 3:00 (time running down). Micky stands up and crosses himself, cut, bruised, swollen face.. .sees Neary standing across the ring... Dicky starts bouncing on his toes ringside, looks up at his brother in the ring. Micky starts bouncing on his toes.. .walks toward Neary... 2:28 (time running down). ..Micky and Neary toe-to-toe trading punches, neither backing down, hear Larry Merchant, "They are trying to hurt each other with every punch. This is a test now of will." Neary swings hard hitting Micky's temple with a big right...Bam!...Micky's hurt, legs dancing about! Lampley, "Ward wobbled there by a right cross from Neary! (C.ONTTNTTF.n' The Fighter 8/28/09 Neary goes to the body and to the uppercut as he tries to finish Micky!" chatting about it. The Fighter 8/28/09 101. .Crowd standing, screaming...Charlene and Alice can't watch ...Neary backs Micky up against the ropes, hitting him with everything he's got, pounding hard right after hard right ...Bam! Bam! Bam! Merchant, "Vicious body shots from Neary!"...Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam!...Micky covering his face with his gloves, bleeding from his mouth, under his eye.. .hear Merchant, "And Micky Ward is in trouble again!" .Dicky's on his feet ringside, leaning on the ring apron, mirroring Micky in the ring... covering his face with his hands, bobbing his head.. .starts punching, screaming, "Punch ya way out of it. Punch out of it!" .Micky starts firing at Neary, hear Lampley, "Ward trying to trade his way back!"...Neary steps back...Micky slips off the ropes and raises his hands over his head, letting Neary know he survived. . .And fires a left hook--Right uppercut! Lampley, "And Ward hurts Neary with a body shot! Ward hurts him again with that left to the body! Neary is wobbled!" Micky rocks Neary with another left hook to the body ...Bam! Micky follows with a huge left uppercut... Bam! Neary stumbles backwards and goes crashing down to the canvas! Hear Lampley scream, "Big uppercut by Ward! First time in 22 fights that Shea Neary has been down!" Neary gets back up to his feet at "Four..." Referee Mickey Vann giving him the standing eight-count, "Six... Seven... Eight." .Dicky shaking his fist, screaming Micky on, "This is it! This is it! This is it!" .Micky walks back in and unleashes a huge left hook--Left hook--Right uppercut--Left hook. Neary backpedaling. Right uppercut. Neary trying to cover up. Another left uppercut sends Neary reeling across the ring! Sprawling out of control, landing with his head down in Micky's corner! Dicky raises his hands over his head, white corner jacket stained with Micky's blood... .Charlene, Alice, George all on her feet screaming, crowd now cheering for Micky ...Lampley, "Neary down for the second time! Mickey Vann's gonna stop it!"...The referee waves it's over, it's over, hear Merchant, "He's done it! Micky Ward's done it!" .Micky throws his hands in the air, blood dripping down his face...he can't believe it...he can't believe it...he can't believe it...he screams with joy. . .Dicky jumps up into the ring, runs to his brother... Charlene... Alice... George all screaming with joy outside the ring... (C_fNTTNTT1 f ) The Fighter 8/28/09 102. (looks down and hugs his brother's head between his gloves, laughing) Dickyeeee! (holding Micky up off the ground, looks up at him.. .tears in his eyes) Ohmygahd, Micky, you're the world champion! You're champion a the whole world! .Dicky holding his brother up in his arms...Micky raises his fists above his head... the two brothers together in the middle of the crowded ring... Dicky. Credits start. Then 'Micky Ward went on to three epic fights with Arturo Gatti. bringing Micky his first seven-figure paydays. He retired in 2003." Dicky turns as he holds Micky and now we see Dicky's face, scrunched against Micky's hip as he holds him aloft. Dicky: "Dicky lives with Alice and Little Dicky a few blocks away from Micky, and trains fighters in Lowell. Free from crack, he battles his addiction every day.' Alice steps into the ring, followed by George. Both my boys are champions, Micky you're a champion! love you! She touches Micky's hair and neck, loving eye contact with him, when Micky is pulled toward Charlene, who grabs his face and kisses him deeply, leaving Alice to turn and lovingly fix the collar of Dicky's cornerman jacket. 'Micky married Charlene in 2005. They live in Lowell with his daughter Kasie in the house he bought with the money he made from the Neary fight. Credits continue. Credits continue over real interviews with real Lowell; followed by the sisters. Micky & Dicky are champions of the world. . .the dream is alive in Lowell... Fighter, The : Scott Silver Paul Tamasy Eri