Written by David Ayer April 1945 -- The Allied Armies strike at the heart of Germany. In four weeks the Third Reich will be no more... Thick morning fog blankets all. faint glow in the East. It's quiet save for the of artillery. Super title: Somewhere in Nazi Germany... Spanish Arabian emerges from the fog. wasp waisted German Army erect in its saddle. His disciplined horse elegantly picks its way over the furrowed soil. dark hulk looms in the mist -- Horse and rider approach... -- An American Sherman. Still smoldering. Steel armor ripped open like tin foil. The Lieutenant moves on. Encounters another charred tank. Its entire turret blown off. small fire still burns inside. Around it are the blackened twisted shapes of burnt shrunken men. He moves on. Another hulk emerges from the most -- This tank looks like a scrap heap -- Sandbags, railroad ties, sloppy steel plate, cases of wine, rations and ammunition. Battered, scarred and seemingly abandoned. The Lieutenant guides his horse in a slow circle around the armored vehicle. He a faint -- And draws his Luger from its shiny black holster -- An hiding leaps on him... Tearing the German from his horse. The two men to the ground. The American stabs the Lieutenant in the face -- Fast, violent, shocking... The American then carefully slides the knife blade behind the German's eye - Piercing his brainpan with a The German convulses for a moment. And dies... The American retrieves his knife. Wipes it clean on the German's uniform and scans the area with burning primal eyes. This is Late twenties he looks middle aged. light beard and hollow cheeks. Years of combat have ground him into something hard and sharp. With the mechanical clumsiness of exhaustion, Wardaddy cuts the mapcase from the German's belt. Then rips the large Knight's Cross medal from the dead man's neck. Wardaddy stands to his full impressive height in his oil blackened overalls. He crosses to the horse. He grabs the beautiful animal's bridal and looks at it for a moment... Eye to eye. Connection with the animal. With incredible gentleness he rubs its muzzle. And kisses it... Then he pulls his knife -- The horse jerks back, but Wardaddy holds it firm. He knows horses... - He cuts off the bridle, slips the bit from its mouth. He unbuckles the saddle and drops it to the soil. Wardaddy looking at the horse. Then it heads back the way it came - Now without ride and tack... Wardaddy climbs aboard his tank -- Her name is -- It's painted on her cannon. Dark. Cramped. Crowded. filthy machine with filthy men. There's two main areas - -- big cylindrical cage that spins with the turret. And the -- The front of the tank where the driver and a machine gunner sit. The sound of piss hitting tin... is draped casually across the cannon breech. pastor's kid from Des Moines, he's serious, calm, centered. You'd never guess he's killed a thousand men. He finishes urinating into an ammo can. sits in the driver's seat sipping wine from a bottle. Mexican butcher from Chicago. He's been drunk since 1942. He once went into combat sober - And vowed never to do it again. Next to Gordo, the transmission housing between them, is the body of blood soaked jacket pulled over his head. His blood spattered inside the tank. a good-old-boy from Arkansas, is wedged into the battery compartment fixing a short. He's cunning, viscous and World wise. Wardaddy drops down into the Commander's hatch. Get that fucker? knocked him off. Gordo offers Red a drink, pushes the bottle into his shoulder. Whispers to him... Gordo. Stop. Leave him rest. He's dead. Or did you forget? Drunk damn fool. Gordo shoots them a dirty look. Keeps whispering to his dead friend. Wardaddy watches Coon-Ass work. Goddammit. Ain't you done? Keep ridin' me. I'm not riding you. If was, you'd know it. More where he came from. Wardaddy tosses Bible the Knight's Cross - Bible hangs it in the turret - Where more German combat decorations hang like Christmas ornaments. You get some canned bacon for this? He tosses Gordo the dead Officer's Luger. He inspects it. For this? Yeah. case or two. Wardaddy lights a cigarette. Then scratches another notch in his knife with his can opener. It's tense - They are behind German lines and acutely aware of the danger they're in. But danger becomes routine. After years of it... Coon-Ass smirks - he'll get a rise... How come you didn't shoot that horse? You love shooting horses so much. Wardaddy darkens with outrage -- He works his way over to Coon-Ass and begins kicking the Hell out of him. Stop it! What's that for? You know what it's for. Why you always whoopin' on me? Because you're an animal. dog. All you understand is the fist and boot. Bull-sheeet. understand me the pussy and the gun. Killin' and fuckin'. In that order? Maybe. Timing's important. like me warm pussy. Pipin' hot. You still talking? Can we get out of here? Everyone shut up. You shut up. You're a goddamn bottle of wine. Stink like wine. Think like wine. Alcohol never solved nothing. Neither did milk. Let's go. Vamanos. Vamanos ya. Wanna talk Mexican? Find another tank. Mexican tank. This is an American tank. We talk American. Who put a nickel in you? You talk Kraut. You can talk German and can't talk Spanish? use my German as a tool of war. Coon-Ass grabs his crotch... Here's my tool of war. Bible realizes this isn't about horses or Spanish. It's about Red -- The man with his head blown off in the Bow Gunner's seat. Bible hands Wardaddy some coffee he warmed on a Coleman stove. Thanks, Boyd. Stop ragging on everyone. You didn't kill Red. The German's did. That's true. But sure didn't keep him alive. His number came up. That's all. We've been lucky. Until now. Settle down. Wardaddy adds sugar to his coffee. Stirs it with a greasy callused finger. He opens the German's mapcase -- Discovers several maps... Thank heavens. We got a map. Wardaddy studies a German map... We're here. Battalion Area's to the South. This hardball road here'll get us back. Sound good? You got the stripes, Daddy. You figure it out. got more, boy. Need more? Wardaddy pokes his head out of the commander's hatch and listens carefully to the coming dawn. His finely tuned instincts kick in. Wardaddy drops back inside - Pulls the hatch shut with a The sound of -- An Artillery barrage is on the way... -- Shells explode around the tank. Rocking it. For the moment the men are safe in their steel cocoon. Coon-Ass? Anytime, sweetheart. Coon-Ass turns a last bolt then extricates himself from the batteries. 'Kay. Crank her up, Gordo. Whip this bitch like your donkey back in Old Mexico. I'll whip your Alabama ass with my donkey cock. Gordo pushes the starter button. Expectant faces. The engine but doesn't catch. -- Incredibly loud. Shrapnel off the hull. They endure it with their trademark stoicism. They've been through it before - But a direct hit can kill them... Choke'er up. She's cold. Gordo opens the choke. Tries again. The engine rumbling. Doesn't start. Worried faces. There's condensation on the plugs. Plugs're good. Don't flood it. Drunk or not can start a damn tank. -- The engine to life. They are relieved. Low key and businesslike, they don their headsets - It's now unbelievably loud in the tank. Coon-Ass joins Wardaddy and Bible in the turret basket. Move out! Gordo double-clutches and shifts into first. The tank lurches. Bible presses his eye to the gunsight... Wardaddy rotates the turret with his looking outside through a -- We see the turret basket rotating, the legs of Wardaddy, Bible, and Coon-Ass standing inside - It's an impressive sight... Forward! Pick it up! Forward! The tank and Ammo cases, weapons, rations vibrate. We are in the belly of the beast. -- Shells explode dangerously close. The tank shudders. Gordo clutches, shifts into second. Stomps the gas. The tank builds speed. Wardaddy the road... Drive! Left. Left. Left. - Turning the tank with the two big steering levers. He whips it onto the road, upshifts into third gear. The tank builds speed - Moving surprisingly fast. Gordo can sure drive a tank. Eyes riveted to his periscope. Gas, oil, blood and piss sloshing over his boots. Red's body in the seat next to him. Leaving the artillery behind... Out of immediate danger, Wardaddy opens his hatch and takes his normal position - Exposed from the chest up in the commander's hatch. He grips a captured German assault rifle, grimly scanning for threats with his cold hard eyes. The Fury has escaped. Her crew is neither grateful or relieved. There is work to do. The war is not over... farmer's field has been overrun by a traveling circus of death - An American Armored Battalion. couple thousand men. couple hundred vehicles. The load for another day on the attack. Months of spearheading into Germany have taken their toll. pumps rounds into German targets miles away. The of the Redball Express Trucks unload heaps of supplies from their trucks. and MPs move with purpose. clean weapons. gives last rights outside the surgery tent as line up more litters of hundred sit listlessly behind barbed wire. plows a heap of dad Germans into a pit. -- Their busy ready them for another day's push into Germany. The tankers stop working and stare in amazement. -- Driving up fast, it deftly spins and parks perfectly alongside the newer, cleaner tanks. commander of the Lucy Sue shakes his head. Thought you were dead, Collier. The Devil watches over his own. Wardaddy jumps down. pair of approach the tank with a litter. Wardaddy and Gordo haul Red's corpse out of the tank and lay him onto the litter. Take care of him. He was a good man. The Medic the top of Red's head is gone. You said you had wounded. We're not graves registration. Take good care of him. Or I'll take good care of you. Wardaddy pats his assault rifle with menace. The Medics trade looks and depart with the body. Gordo crawls under the tank and passes out in the mud. approaches Wardaddy. Young and fresh, he has just a month with the outfit. He's intimidated Wardaddy, this tough tanker hard tempered by war's hammer. Sergeant was afraid you were dead. I'm awful sorry about Conley. It's Red. We call him Red. Sure. Where's the rest of Third Platoon? Were' it. What happened out there? Another goddamned green Lieutenant happened. What do tell the Captain? Tell him we drove straight into a strongpoint. Two Kraut tanks were dug in like pillboxes. got ;em both. After they got everyone else. We're moving again. Headquarters section's already folding. You're in my platoon now. We're assigned to check out a town while main unit bypasses. goddamned flank guard mission? Wardaddy nods at the Fury. Looking even more ragged in the daylight. Lieutenant, gotta short in the master switch box. Steering linkage is rattling. Engine's losing compression. Oil's in the radiator. Bogies need rubber. There's a 75 gouge on the turret that'll take twenty pounds of welding rod to fill in. She's a mess. So's my crew. Lt. Make ready to depart the company area on my order. Yessir. Fuck my life. The young officer spins on his heels and walks off. Wardaddy looks at Bible and Coon-Ass, staring at him from atop the tank. Just crushed. Beaten, exhausted. Spent. Parker's a douchebag. We working for that Yankee fool now? Don't you worry about him. You work for me. Restock ammo and rations. Wake up Gordo. Have him top off the water and gas. Do what you can about the mechanical issues. Wardaddy walking away. Where you going? The latrine to take a shit. ain't shit in a week. a shiny new Private with a dufflebag intercepts Wardaddy. Sergeant Collier? Maybe. What the fuck are you? Private Ellison. was told to report to you. I'm your new Assistant Driver. Lookit you. Crisp and green like a new dollar bill. Puppy breath and all. Wardaddy lights a smoke. An outgoing volley from the nearby Artillery Company makes Norman flinch. Don't worry about outgoing. Incoming mail's the issue. Nazis can drop an 88 shell in your hip pocket from two miles out. Wardaddy directs him to the Fury... That's home. Do what you're told. And don't get too close to no one. Wardaddy walks off. Norman approaches the tank. Bible and Coon-Ass scrutinize the newcomer. Gordo slides out from under the hull, bathed in mud. The three feral tankers eye Norman. Gordo grabs Norman's dufflebag and searches it. Norman afraid to stop him. Which way's the front? Bible gestures in a wide circle... All around us. Kid, this is Germany. We're surrounded by Krauts. Norman sees a running in circles holding an rifle above his head. Yelling this: I'm a shithead! I'm a shithead! I'm a shithead! I'm a shithead! What's that about? He was cleaning a machine gun and didn't unload it. Nearly killed a sergeant. Lucky he didn't get stomped into the mud. Norman swallows hard. Looks around. Gordo angrily looks up from Norman's dufflebag. Where's your cigarettes? don't smoke. Well then you're a bastard. Gordo tosses Norman's dufflebag in the mud. Norman looks stricken. You go to tank school? I've never seen inside a tank. I'm a clerk typist. was going to Fifth Corps They pulled me off the truck and sent me here. It's gotta be a mistake. Ain't a mistake. Army does what it does. Kid, you from Missouri? Norman shakes his head: "no." Chicago? Norman shakes his head: "no." Arkansas? No, I'm from -- -- No one gives damn where you're from. Gordo offers him his canteen. Norman politely takes a swig. Spits it out. It tastes like hornet stings. You don't drink? Nuh-uh. Especially that. Gordo snatches back his canteen. hate you. You a praying man? go to church. Do you subscribe? Are you saved? I'm baptized. That's not that I'm asking. And you know it. Wait until you see it. See what? What a man can do to another man. Reverend-pastor-deacon Swan here was in a preacher factory when he got drafted. It's called divinity college. Praise Sweet Jesus. Thank you for the war dear sweet, sweet Jesus. Thank you for all the goddamned Nazi's to kill. Norman. There two are wicked men. Albeit amusing. You better grab hold of Jesus. He's the one thing that won't rattle you loose. ...sure... Coon-Ass pulls open the Bow Gunner's hatch. Here boy. Here's your seat. Get a bucket of hot water from the kitchen and get it clean. Amish clean. Norman's face drops when he peers inside... Minutes later. Norman kneels awkwardly over the transmission as he scrubs off blood with a rag. He pauses to stare at the big belt fed machine gun - Also spattered with blood. He cleans it gently. As if afraid of waking a dangerous animal. Norman removes blood spattered pin-up girls. And a photo of Red's wife - The tough cattle ranching woman who has no idea her man is dead. He reaches for a photo of Red in cowboy regalia astride a horse -- And freezes... -- Blonde hair, an ear, a single blue eye. Half of Red's face. Love Company's tanks are being readies for combat. Gas tanks are filled. Equipment is oiled and cleaned. Ammo loaded. Busy green monkeys scrambling over big green turtles. Coon-Ass and Bible load ammo into the turret. Wardaddy and Gordo tighten track links with wrenches. Norman scrambles out of the tank and tumbles over the side. Landing on his hands and knees, he vomits his ham and eggs into the mud... Coughing and sputtering he looks up in time to see a 6x6 truck roll by, filled with a heap of corpses. German and American. Legs and arms sticking out. It looks like they are waving "Hi" to the young soldiers... Norman wants to cry. The Fury's crew stares at him. Blank faced. No sympathy. Get back in there. It's not going to clean itself. Norman stands, brushes off the mud. About to climb back in the tank, he pauses and stares with his mouth agape. Two escort an His hands tied behind his back with bailing wire. His head is like a watermelon. Puffy slits for eyes, blood slicked hair. He's taken a serious beating. Why ain't he sleepin'? G-two wants a prisoner to question. I'll question him. (in fluent German) What's your favorite color? You like chicken or beef? You a good dancer? You like fat girls? The stoic prisoner blinks with confusion... -- Wardaddy buries his knife in the Sergeant's chest. Smack in the heart. And works it side to side. The GI's shake their heads with weary dismay. Bible and Coon- Ass pull Wardaddy away. Gordo cackles with delight. Okay, that kind of thing's gonna get you in a lot of trouble. We ain't here to ask them questions. The Tired GI's drop their prisoner. They look at Wardaddy like they're going to do something about it. Coon-Ass aims his Tommy gun at them... It's a goddamned Kraut. Forget it. The man dies in the mud gasping his last breath. The tired GI's move along. have tell them what you did. Wardaddy ignores him. Norman watches the men go, shocked. Wardaddy spits. Wipes his knife clean. You killed a prisoner of war. In cold blood. know what did. He's an They're real assholes. Wardaddy shakes a smoke from his pack. Scratches another notch in his knife with his can opener. kill every can. You'd seen what seen you would too. Fuck every last one. They started it. We're finishing it. Heinies don't know they're beat. Our Generals smell blood. Yep. Ain't nothin' stopping the spear from sliding into the enemy's belly. We're the spearhead. Done any killing? Norman shakes his head: no. You will. Wardaddy shoves an ugly stamped metal submachine-gun into Norman's hands. The GIs call it a "greasegun." The Lieutenant returns from the Company Command Post... First Platoon TC's! See me now. The first Platoon wander over to the Lieutenant. and all rough men who can kick ass in a bar fight. see you, sir. see you. Here's the big picture. Main Unit's going East. We're going North on a flank guard mission. We'll tie up with Baker Company from the 41st. Sergeant Collier is with us now. He'll be acting Platoon Sergeant. That's fine with me. Glad to have you, Don. Sir, saying you get picked off? Mind showing me on the overlay where we're going? Sure, Collier. Kansas point Dog. After that we're working for Captain Waggoner. Any questions? You started shaving? Lt. Parker disregards the dig... First Platoon! Mount up and move out! The five tank commanders cross to their waiting tanks. Wardaddy makes the "crank it up" hand sign. Gordo slides in the driver's hatch and starts the Fury. The other four tank start up - Their The 25 men of 1st Platoon take their fighting positions inside the steel beasts. Wardaddy mounts the Fury. Norman too. One man confident and seasoned. The other clumsy and hesitant. - arguing with Sgt. Davis... can't go out! can't do it! And you can't make me! Sgt. Davis punches the man. And shoves him into the Row Gunner's hatch. It's like stuffing a cat in a bathtub. Battle fatigue case. Good man. He's got his limit. We got ours. Ought'a be psycho'ed to the rear. The Corporal extends his hand from the hatch, just his hand. He's holding a live -- It blows the Corporal's hand clean off, shreds his forearm. Sgt. Davis is livid. Bless your heart. You done went and did it. Get on, boy. Go suck your mama's titty milk. Get on out of here you yellow fuck. The Corporal climbs out of the hatch, slides down the front of the tank and trudges toward an ambulance clutching his shattered arm. Norman saw everything. He looks at Wardaddy, amazed and confused. Who just shrugs and locks and loads his big. .50 Cal machine gun. Guess he didn't want to go. Drive! Move out. The Fury falls in behind Lt. Parker's tank. Then Sgt. Davis' tank. Then Peterson and Binkowski's tanks. The 5 tanks of 1st move out in a column. Each tank running over the dead Sergeant - Flattening him into the mud. No sentimentality here. It's just business. The Five Sherman Tanks are on the road heading East. They pass the - Marking the scrimmage line between the American Army and the Nazis. Go fuck yourself Wardaddy! You owe me forty bucks! Wardaddy waves goodbye. The tank column passes a field where dozens of foxholes are filled with At the sound of a a hundred ragged green men emerge from the earth like spawning locusts and shuffle toward waiting trucks. - Sitting in the Bow Gunner seat, his hatch open. The ass of the Lieutenant's Tank spewing exhaust and dust in his face. The Lieutenant keeps glancing back at Gordo, sitting in the Driver's hatch. Gordo takes quick sips from a wine bottle between the young officer's disapproving glances. We get hit, we're gonna burn out. And we're gonna burn out fast. Our tanks are shit boxes. German guns punch through them like butter. See this... He points at a hatch in the floor under his seat. We get hit. I'm gone. Right through here. ain't waiting for you. ain't helping you. Got that? Okay. Thank you. Norman looks up at Wardaddy in the Commander's hatch. He looks like he was born like that - An iron centaur, half man half tank. Wardaddy speaks to him through the intercom... Kid, you hear me, you plugged in? Norman fumbles with the intercom switch, replies: hear you, Sergeant. Don't fire that bow gun until tell you. Got that? Don't want you plastering our guys. Okay, Sarge. Gordo kills off his bottle of wine, throws it at the back of the Lieutenant's tank, shattering it. Kid, you play cards? Blackjack? Poker? No. don't play cards. You motherfucker. Farmer's fields on either side. The tank column passes an riding a hay wagon pulled by two old horses. Columns of black smoke rise in the distance. Wardaddy spreads his map on the turret. Marks their destination. Coon-Ass opens his hatch, next to Wardaddy's. What a chicken shit job. goddamned side mission while main unit leapfrogs us. We need any support we're fucked. Ain't this fucking war over yet? We're two hundred miles from Berlin. Get there just over a week. I'm in no hurry to get murdered in Berlin. Kids pouring bushels of grenades in our hatches. Wine bottles full'a gasoline. No thank you, ma'am. don't want it to end. I'm ready to ship home. Work at the hog farm, marry me a little thing to make me pies and babies. never planned on surviving this thing. pretty little mama with a mess of cousins. Eat their pies too. I'll keep losing at poker until get my head shot off. Die owing every dripping dick in the battalion a stack of money. Hurry up. You're running out of war. Don't know it. You just wanna keep killing people. You need it like you need breathing. Can't do it back home. Not for long at least. got no home. If get it first, you gotta promise to bury me face down. So you find your way to Hell quicker? So the whole damn world can kiss my ass. - fighter flies over. So low they can count the rivets on the wings. It quickly vanishes over the horizon. - Watching with fascination. He another fast approaching. - It passes directly overhead. - German anti-aircraft gun opens up. 600 yards away it's well camouflaged in a group of trees. It blows the wing off the low-flying fighter plane. The aircraft corkscrews into a field and as its bomb load detonates. Sudden. Shocking. - Spinning the turret with his thumb switch, he lines up a shot on the anti-aircraft gun's position. Anti-aircraft! Two O'clock. Six hundred yards. Fire when ready! Bible presses his face against the gun's telescopic sight. He makes fine adjustments to the azimuth and elevation wheels of the cannon. Then stomps the firing pedal... On the way! - The gun recoils violently several feet, rocking the tank. Coon-Ass immediately loads another shell into the breech - It slams it shut - - Buffeted by the muzzle blast. He the cannon shell - a glowing fireball - Arc into the German position. - direct hit. The distant target explodes with a high order detonation - Burning and exploding ammunition rains down around it. Love One-Two for Love-One. Target destroyed. We should head over there. Might be more Krauts to bag. Negative, Collier. We're on a timetable. They continue on their way. Leaving the carnage behind them. Norman watches the greasy columns of smoke from the crashed fighter and the destroyed German gun recede in the distance. It all happened so fast. His first taste of combat and he never saw an enemy soldier. The five tanks turn onto a paved road. It is crowded with - long ragged column of German civilians fleeing the bombings and marauding Russians to the East. once proud faces not dirty and scared. - Warily eying the flood of refugees. There's a 19th Century carriage being pushed by women. car is pulled by horses. Okay. Button up. There might be a wolf hiding in the sheep. Kid, cast an eyeball on 'em. Anyone makes a move you cut them right in half. Do what you need to do. If people are in the way, that's their problem. You copy? copy. Gordo and Norman close their hatches. Norman looks at the machine gun. Hesitant. Gordo reaches over and cocks it for him - Gun's ready. Just pull the trigger. Every five rounds is a tracer. So you can see what you're hitting. Remember, short bursts. That way you'll harvest more meat per bullet. Norman Looks through his periscope. - The world as seen through a rectangular piece of glass. He just sees a tire mass of people. Pathetic and harmless. The Refugees move aside for the tanks. Among them are a dozen - Schoolboy draftees - With no appetite for a fight. They toss aside their weapons and raise white handkerchiefs. Wardaddy, from his position high in the turret towers over them, aims his assault rifle at them... Keep walking. American lines are that way. Keep moving. Hands up high. There you go. Move. Lt. Parker is 50 feet ahead in his tank, he handsignals for Wardaddy to speed up. The tanks speed past of the line of refugees. Tanks don't like people near them. Gordo opens his hatch. Norman does the same. Grateful he didn't have to shoot anyone. They pass a pretty girl on a bicycle. She smiles at Norman. There you go, boy. She'll let you fuck her for a chocolate bar. That's not true. That's not true? Okay. It's not true. It's true. You can liberate her ass for a D-ration bar. Or some smokes. Don't give her a whole pack. Four will do it. Ignore them. Don't disappoint Christ. Don't let them lead you astray. We can kill 'em but we can't fuck 'em. Right? Cuz it's in the bible. I'm done trying to convert you heathens. Mind if continue invading Germany? You think Jesus loves Hitler? would assume so. And if Hitler accepted Jesus in his heart and got baptized, he'd be saved. Won't save him from man's justice. What about your regular issue Nazi line trooper? He going to heaven? You've been asking these same dumb questions for three years. You know where stand. Please save me. Sing me a hymn. Sing me "The Old Rugged Cross." Sing it boy. Coon-Ass tickles Bible. For all their back and forth, they're closer than brothers. Stop, fool. I'll shoot you. Knock off the horseplay. (a beat, then) Boyd, you think Hitler would fuck one of us for a chocolate bar? hope so. I'd give it to him good. Slide this cannon right up his backside and punch out a Supercharge. Send the sonofabitch straight to Hell. That's awful Christian of you. The 5 tanks steadily approach their objective. Telegraph poles line the road. From those poles hang four about 10 or 11 - Big signs around their necks... The men in the Fury stare at the dead children. Wardaddy is face to face with them. He's up so high. What do the signs say? Wardaddy paraphrases the German scrawls on the signs. "I'm a coward and refused to fight for the German people." Kids. They're just kids. Then the body of a helped traitors to Germany." Norman gasps, looking at the bodies. Stunned by the senseless cruelty. They did that shit in France and Belgium. Now they're doing it to their own people. Let 'em rip themselves to pieces. The tank column continues. Norman watches the world go by through his periscope block. Seeing Germany through the small glass prism... Norman's - in the ditch alongside Lt. Parker's tank - An 11 aims a Penzerfaust anti-tank rocket at the Lieutenant's tank - He's a scared child, fear on his face, trembling. Norman can't believe that he's seeing - He hesitates. - The Hitler Youth fires the rocket. It slams square into the side of Lt. Parker's tank... - perfect hit on the ammunition storage. The result is instant and catastrophic as a jet of molten steel ignites the cannon ammunition... column of intense flame erupts from the commander's hatch like a giant blow torch. Lt. Parker is immolated like a human candle. aims his assault rifle at the Hitler Youth... - Drops him with a burst. Tow more decide they are done playing soldier and take off running... - Wardaddy smokes the little fuckers too... The four other tanks spread out into a cover formation... The burning tank rolls to a stop. The Driver's hatch opens. The crawls out - Flops on the ground. Burning alive, he pulls his pistol from his shoulder holster... - And shoots himself in the head. Wardaddy and the other three tank commanders scanning for more Germans. All clear. Into radio... Keep an eye out. Wardaddy climbs out of his hatch. Coon-Ass covers him with a big. 50 Cal machine gun. Wardaddy approaches the burning tank. begins to It is a total loss. No survivors. Wait - The hatch opens. Belching fire and smoke. The flails in the open hatch. Roasting alive. Trapped. Hopeless. - Wardaddy finishes him off. Then, he crosses to the Hitler Youth in the ditch - He's still alive. Wardaddy kicks him. Reloads his rifle. You happy now you little shit? You should be in school drinking milk. You didn't have to fight us you idiot. Wardaddy aims his weapon - - Ends the boy's short lived war. He returns to the Fury. on Norman's hatch with his gun butt. Norman, open this goddamn hatch you cocksucker. Norman opens the hatch, scared of Wardaddy. Who wouldn't be? Why didn't you shoot that shithead when you had the chance? It happened so fast. He was just a kid. Wardaddy gestures at Lt. Parker's burning tank. See what a kid can do? That's your fault. Next fucking German with a weapon you see, rake the dogshit out of him. don't care if it's a baby with a butter knife in one hand and mama's left titty in the other. You chop him up. Wardaddy walks away leaving Norman destroyed and guilt wracked. Gordo looks at him, he's falling apart. Okay. Look. That stupid kid did that not you. froze up before too. That's why like driving. You gotta kill Krauts? It's them or us. Can you do it? can do it... Okay. Then do it. This makes it easier. He offers Norman a bottle of wine. Norman declines. Wardaddy shouts to Sgt. Davis' tank. Alright, Roy. Guess I'm it. I'll lead the column. Let's get where we're going. Lead the way. Wardaddy climbs into the Fury's turret. Double checks his map. Into his mic: Move out, Driver. Gordo puts the tank in gear and leads the column forward. dig foxholes. Eat chow. Clean weapons. Play cards. There are several and Tow huge columns of thick black smoke rise from just over the next hill. The four tanks approach. An American flags them down... Gordo, stop 'er here. (to the Sergeant) Baker Company? Yessir. I'm not a sir. Where's your boss? Dead. Who's in charge 'a this column? am. I'm talking to the right man. Park it. Old Man's waiting over there. The Infantry Sergeant leads Wardaddy to a full of radios. couple monitor the fires rounds at distinct German positions. Sir, tankers are here. turns toward Wardaddy. This is an officer he can respect. Rugged, solid. Big calloused hands. confident veteran. How many tanks you got? Four. asked for ten. Here's the deal - got a platoon pinned in a sugar beet field by machine guns. sent my tracks in an they got knocked out. The Boche has a 75 dug in and need you to destroy it. They're (cont'd) not old men and kids. It's a regular Wehrmacht outfit. Help me kill them. Then we'll push into town and kill the rest of the bastards. Main unit has Time on Target and aviation priority. So we're on our own. know who you are and know you know what you're doing. Let's get it done. Wardaddy likes this guy. He taps the Captain's map. Seeing as they're covering this road. Mind if come in this way? Hit their flanks and roll 'em up. Do what you see fit. Just paste them hard. They murdered some good boys today. Why don't they just quit? Would you? Point taken. Wardaddy walks away. Minutes later. tend to four wounded GIs. Two dead GIs are laid across the hood of a Jeep. Nearby a couple in fire bursts from their .50 cals into the distant German positions. Wardaddy's four tanks are in a row. The tank crews prepare them for combat. Weapons and ammo are double checked. Track links are tightened. Norman helps Gordo top off the gas tanks with the help of a This is it. We're gonna see some action. I'm scared shitless. You'll be so fucking busy you won't have time to be scared. hero's just as scared as a coward. One quits. One don't. Don't give him no hero bullshit. It's a job. Everybody does their job, you win the game. Like a football team. And the fellow that charges into danger to save his buddies? What is he? moron. How's it feel to kill a man? Is it hard? Ever killed a hog? Butchered a hog? It's just like that. Screaming and all. How would you know? Get in a knife fight in the whorehouse shitter back home? They put me on the line in the Bulge. They don't want us killing the white man. Until it's their necks. killed me a whole bunch. Krauts got real hot when they saw who was doing it. It was just like killing hogs. I'm from the city. I've only seen a cat get hit by an ice wagon. I'm from the city too. Chicago. And seen lots of animals die. Papa worked in a slaughterhouse cutting up steers with an electric saw. Came up from Mexico to work there. Papa would cut off a piece of meat, swipe some kidneys or a tongue and sneak 'em home. We ate beef every day. started me there when was fourteen. On the kill line. Hitting beef cows, old dairy cows, sometimes horses, between the eyes with a twelve pound sledgehammer. Right here. (taps his forehead) I'd be head to toe in blood, brains, and snot. Whackin' beefs all day until couldn't move my arms. helped in my dad's stationary store. At the register. We sold sundries. Nothing that bled or screamed. Too bad. It's something. The kill line teaches you something. That it's better to be the man with the hammer? That's right. Croon-Ass and Wardaddy are alone in the turret. Coon-Ass is crying. His nerves are getting the best of him. Don, can't do it. can't take any more. don't want to die. feel like I'm going to slide right out of my skin every time a goddamn shell goes off. can't do this. don't got the nerve. You can do it. You get worked up. Before an action. That's all. This ain't that. This is something different. No it's your regular bullshit. You get the jitters. You bitch some and then you're fine. Grady, it's your way. Lookit the odds. We got four years of close calls. All the original boys are gone. Dead or mangled. We're it. Me, you and the Mexican. Out of how many? Some guys have been replaced four or five times. Replacement shows up one day. He's dead the next. Why not us? Shut up. Shut your mouth. Don't you spook that kid any more than he's already spooked. We need him. Remember that boy from Texas who was running and got hit by a shell? Listen to me. Don. Listen to me. remember. And his tank got hit by a Tiger and he bailed out and was running and a cannon shell hit him square in the back and he disappeared but his head flew straight up and landed in a tree. You remember that? said remember. Every night dream his head's in a tree singing to me. Soft and sweet like my mama's songs when was a baby. If close my eyes right now, I'll see him. Red's got us all a little sad right now. Grady. Look at my eyes, I'm talking. We gotta help this outfit. Then, you can get shit-yer-pants drunk and fuck some girls or something. How's that sound? You gonna drink with me? You know won't do that. I'm the foulest meanest damn drunk you can imagine. I'd stab you in the face and lick the blade clean. Fine. I'll drink that nice Cognac we found and roll around with some Nazi split-tails. I'm an ass man you know. Wish had a stick of butter. Wardaddy smiles. Coon-Ass is ready to fight. Wardaddy does a final walk around his four tanks. He sees both man and machine are ready for battle. He turns to the two waiting - About 20 men. Let's kill us some Germans. Mount up. The tired dogfaces climb aboard the tanks. Wardaddy climbs aboard the Fury. Plugs in his helmet. Start 'em up and move out. The tanks start their engines and pull out. Each tank has at least five soldiers riding on top. The four tanks move in a column. Shielded from the enemy by a small low hill. Fury leads the way - An standing behind the turret mans the .50 Cal. You know what's waiting for us? Yeah, know. Wardaddy smiles at the old leathery bastard. All tanks this is Wardaddy. Form a shallow right echelon on me. When we hit the flat ground spread out to a hundred yard interval. On my signal we'll drop the doughs and roll up that 75. Everyone copy? Love One-Three copies. Wilco. One-Four. Roger all. This is Five. We got you Daddy. The column accelerates. Wardaddy grinds his teeth in anticipation. The column is now coming around the low hill... All tanks halt! The tanks stop. To the Old Sergeant... Get 'em off. You heard the man! Everyone off! Soldiers spill off the tanks and take a knee. Close to the front line they stay low and wary. Some of the older salts immediately start digging foxholes. All tanks! Move out! Button up! The column begins to roll again. Hatches are closed. Only the expose their heads. The tanks churn up dirt as they enter the field. Spread out in the field is a laying in shallow trenches they scraped into the dirt between the furrows. They are pinned down by German machine guns. Several are wounded or dead. Okay! Fast left! Fast left! Let's go! Start squirting them trees and bushes. The tanks fire their - Streams of from the four tanks probe at any possible hiding place for German men and armor. This is called recon by fire... Norman stares through his periscope. Trying to make sense of the world outside the small glass rectangle. Do shoot? Yes. Start shooting. What do shoot at? Anywhere Nazis might hide. Norman pulls the trigger. The machine gun jackhammers violently. Adding to the deafening noise of the developing battle. Once over the initial shock of firing the weapon, he smiles, empowered, and hoses every tree and bush in sight. Don't sit on the trigger! You'll burn out the barrel! - His face pressed against his gunsight. He fires bursts from the coaxial machine gun using the foot switch. - His tracers rake the distant ditches and bushes. One-Five for Wardaddy. see a bunch' Krauts a hundred yards to my right. That's our troops. Do not shoot them. Yeah. Okay copy. The Fury and the other three tanks drive abreast through the field toward a row of hedges and trees... There are two - The source of the black smoke we saw earlier - Jagged holes in their armored sides. Surrounded by charred men and smoking equipment. whips a long burst into the Fury. It sounds like an evil chainsaw. Sandbags, cases of ammo and Jerrycans of water are torn to shreds. Goddammit! Bible hit that machine gun position! Eight hundred! Fire! The Main gun fires. The cannon round crashes into the well camouflaged machine gun position. The high explosive round detonates. Coon-Ass jams a fresh round into the breech- In his lap and loose at his feet are more big rounds. Clear! Bible fires the instant he hears that. The cannon slams back in recoil, ejecting the spent shell. Coon-Ass rams another shell into the breech, punching it in with fist - - The breech block slams shut... Clear! - The gun fires. Recoils and ejects. Coon-Ass reloads. This veteran crew works like a Swiss watch. The last round nails the gun - Cartwheeling a through the air like a ragdoll. Okay! Cease fire. That target's destroyed. Wardaddy sees a tank has turned the wrong way. Wardaddy for One-Five. Where are you going? Head North. I'm heading North. Dammit, Binkowski. No you are not. Turn right! Turn right! Head for that stand of trees and check it out. One-Five copies. Wilco. Wardaddy another of his tanks about to run over American soldiers. Love One-Three! Fox Romeo! Pull your right brake! You got troops right in front of you! Get your head out of your ass! Love 1-3 swerves at the last second, just avoiding crushing several men. Wardaddy is already looking for the next problem to solve. It's like herding cats. The tank is now a loud, smoky reverberating metal chamber of engine noise and gunfire. Norman is getting the hang of it. Firing the weapon into haystacks. Trees. Anywhere a German may be hiding. Empty shells cover the floor at his feet... - He runs out of ammunition. He grabs another box of ammo. Reloads the hot gun. - hidden German cannon fires a high velocity round that rips right past Wardaddy's head. It's a tank killer and a grave danger... Fuck! Where's that gun! Who sees it? Who sees the gun shooting us? One-Four for Wardaddy. It's ours. think that's a howitzer from the company area. Bullshit! It's not ours. It's a Kraut high velocity gun. can hear it whistling. Where the fuck is it?! the hidden German cannon fires again, hitting Love One-Four. Fortunately, the round glances off and careens into the sky. Believe me now?! Anti-tank! Right front! Right front! Nine hundred! Love 1-4 fires its main gun at the hidden German cannon... The tank round falls short, hits the ground and ricochets sharply. All four tanks begin to fire at the cannon's position. Round after round detonates in quick succession. Stripping the stand of trees bare. Splintering their trunks. Success! The cannon position detonates with a greasy black explosion - second 75mm Anti-tank gun opens fire! Love 1-4 is hit again. The German cannon round makes a massive burst of sparks and ricochets away. (cont'd) I'm hit. Pulling back! There's another gun! Who sees it? Norman fires his machine gun at a more distant group of trees. - His stream of tracers cuts into a group of trees and suddenly deflects upward - From the camouflaged German hidden there... There's something there! At, uh, ten O'clock. Wardaddy the stream of deflected tracer fire. Got him! Anti-tank! Left front! One two hundred. Superquick. Gordo, head right at him. Gunner! Traverse left! Steady...On it! Fire! The Fury's main gun fires - - The shell crashes into the cannon position, igniting its stock of ammo. massive secondary explosion obliterates the 75mm tank gun. Target destroyed! Okay, One-Four you're too damn close to me. Maintain your interval. All tanks, move forward. Let's go. Let's clean it up. The four tanks straighten up their line and drive for the German positions. They near twenty foxholes, each with two inside. Norman loading a fresh belt of ammo... - stands up and aims a Panzerfaust at the Fury. Get him! Kill him! Norman finishes loading the belt. the gun. Looks through his periscope. - Bible shreds the German Soldier with the coaxial machine gun. Beating Norman to the punch. Gordo glares at Norman. Do your job. Do what you're here for. Do it now. was loading the gun. Norman grits his teeth and begins firing. Moving the gun from side to side. Utterly lacking in finesse. The four tanks hose down the foxholes with their machine guns. Several Germans jump up and wave white handkerchiefs in surrender. They are shot down. Wardaddy a machine gun position - Three cower behind their dug-in heavy machine gun. Machine guns, twelve O'clock. Gordo! Run them bastards over! Gordo guns the engine. The Fury lurches forward. The three Germans try to flee from their foxhole. It is too late - Two of them are crushed. The third man cringes at the bottom of the deep hole. Gordo stops over him. Works the steering levers back and forth... The tank turns from side to side, grinding apart the German position, burying the last man alive. The four tanks continue firing their machine guns into the foxholes. Chewing apart the huddled Gordo turns to Norman. Squirt them Krauts there. On yer left. See 'em? - There is cluster of dead German Soldiers, cut down when they tried to run for it. The dead bodies? They're already dead. You a doctor? How you know they're dead? Hit 'em. So they can't jump up and shoot us in the ass. Norman looking at Gordo. He just can't do it. Gordo shakes his head in frustration. And turns the tank toward the bodies and runs them over. Norman begins to cry. Not simply a tear down the cheek but a roar of anguish, good honest pain... can't be here. can't be here. Turn your goddamn intercom off if you're gonna ball like that! The Fury turns side to side grinding dead Germans into the mud. Wardaddy gets on the big .50 Cal machine gun... He fires into the foxholes, chewing up dirt, men, and equipment. Soon the German dead have all be adequately "double tapped" by the four tanks. An everyday procedure. The firing slackens. And stops. Just the occasional burst from a tank's or All tanks. Let's hold here. One-Four. You better take care of that fire. The packs on Love 1-4 are still burning. Wardaddy looks behind them and the pinned Platoon from Baker Company rise to their feet. These are the men the tanks have just rescued. There is no celebration. No back slapping. The Infantry Soldiers know that only more hard fighting awaits them. The men they dropped off have moved up. The two platoons of soldiers inspect the Kraut foxholes... couple in Love 1-4 douse their burning packs with fire extinguishers. Then cut them off. Wardaddy for Love-Four and Five. Pull up there fifty yards and cover that road. Love one-four wilco. Love One-Six for Baker Six. We cleared out the machine guns and the anti-tank. You're fine to roll up your vehicles. Baker Six copies. We're gonna catch up and then we'll push into town. Love One-Six copies. Wardaddy slides out of the turret. Encounters the Old Sergeant waving his men forward... First Platoon get up here and get this trash policed up! Second Platoon pass through and dig in along that ditch. want an outpost on that hill. The Old Sergeant gives Wardaddy a grateful nod. The 1st Platoon Soldiers search the dead. Taking watches and rings. Anything of value. 2nd Platoon (the soldiers that Wardaddy just rescued) stand and move forward to establish a new defensive line. Some don't get up. The search for injured among the dead. Soldier finishes off a wounded German - The German's body is missing from the waist down. Wardaddy bangs on Norman's hatch. Norman opens it with trepidation. had the best Assistant Driver in the entire Ninth Army in that seat. Now got you. promised my crew a long time ago I'd keep them alive. You're getting in the way of that. It ain't like the newsreels up front. I'm sorry. Okay? I'm trained to type 60 words a minute, not machine gun dead bodies. I'm trying my best. Maybe you've never been scared, but I'm so damn scared can't breathe. got three hours in a tank. Three. How many do you got? Backtalk?! From this peachfuzzy teenager? Wardaddy is incredulous. Hey lookit here we got a live one. Get the fuck outta there boy. feral, dirt-shiny drags a middle-aged out of a foxhole. The man is terrified. Trembling. He's the last German alive - now surrounded by dozens of pissed off American troops. Dark unshaven faces. Eyes burning with fever and exhaustion. The Old Sergeant makes a throat cutting motion. The Platoon Soldier is about to shoot the German Corporal... Hang on. Wardaddy yanks Norman out of his hatch. Holds him by the neck, he frogmarches him over to the German Corporal. Who has pictures of his wife and kids in his hand. Meine kinder! Meine frau! Halt die Fresse! Wardaddy slaps the pictures from the man's hands. He pulls the .45 from his shoulder holster and hands it to Norman. Wardaddy spins the prisoner and kicks him to the dirt. Norman looking at the big pistol. Bible watching this unfold from the Fury's turret. Gordo watches from the driver's hatch. Coon-Ass stops tossing out fired cannon shells to watch too. You're no goddamned good to me if you can't kill Krauts. Put a big fat hole in his back. Some of the Platoon soldiers pause and watch the show. Others drift away and continue searching dead Germans. There is simply no way Norman can shoot this sobbing father in the back. He looks at Wardaddy with defiance. No. I'm not doing it. Why the hell not? It's not right. He hands the pistol back. Wardaddy looks like he's going to hit Norman with it. Instead he holsters it. And walks away. Then Wardaddy pauses. Thinks to himself: "Fuck this, I'll win this round." He strides back over to Norman. Grabs him by the throat and shoves him to his knees. He holds his .45 To Norman's head. We ain't here for right and wrong. We're here to kill these people. Platoon Soldiers gather to watch - this is getting interesting. Wardaddy cocks the hammer. You or him. Your pick. You or him. Do it. Kill me. Norman has called his bluff. Enraged, Wardaddy forces the gun into Norman's - then wrestles the pistol against the back of the German Corporal's neck, who is falling apart sobbing. Nicht shiesen! Bitte! Nich shiessen! Wardaddy crams Norman's finger onto the trigger guard and mashes it against the trigger. The pistol fires. Into the German's brain stem. Killing him instantly. Norman sags in defeated horror. Wardaddy holsters his pistol and walks away. Leaving Norman on his knees in the mud. steps in and rolls the dead German Corporal over - He takes his watch and wedding ring. Bible walks over to Norman. He helps the kid up. C'mon. Leads back to the Fury. Where Coon-Ass hands Norman a hot cup of coffee. Norman accepts it gratefully. Wardaddy is by himself smoking a cigarette, maybe feeling a little guilty. That was a shit show. Was that supposed to make a man out of me? My conscience is clean. I'm keeping it that way. The Fury crews trade looks. They've all been there. Gordo puts a brotherly arm around Norman. Don's crazy as a shithouse rat. But he's solid. We've been together since before Africa. won't fight with nobody else. He's the biggest asshole ever met, and I've met a couple. Ain't no crew stayed together like we have. And it's because of him. Look, you did alright. You spotted that 75 when no one else did. kind word. Norman needed it. The crew is starting to accept him. First time we got shot at in North Africa, Don shit his drawers. Stunk the tank up real good. Norman looks at Wardaddy. Unable to imagine him ever afraid. Wardaddy's four tanks lead the men and vehicles of Baker Company to their next objective. Infantry Soldiers ride on the tanks, ten or more on each. They are followed by several Norman's hatch is open. He looks across at Gordo - who gives him a reassuring nod. - Flying at 30,000 feet is a massive formation of nearly a 1000 bombers! white band of contrails covers the sky. The formation is several miles long. An astounding vision. Around the bomber formation are the corkscrewing contrails of fighters engaged in dogfights. Norman watching this entranced. The other tankers and soldiers are enthralled by the spectacle. Wardaddy watches the bombers with admiration... There you go, boys. Keep pounding them. There is a bright flash and a bomber falls out of the sky. The tankers and soldiers watch the distant bomber spin slowly towards the ground like a giant falling maple seed. The column of men and machines continues up the road. They pass two mangled German Army Horse-drawn Wagons. Shattered by fighter plane rockets, a twisted tangle of dead German soldiers and horses. An is hacking off hunks of horseflesh. She glares at the Americans with pure hate. There you go, kid. She's sure as shit fuck you for a chocolate bar. Norman looking at Gordo. Scandalized by that. Then, he cracks a smile at the sheer absurdity - Norman is starting to become a frontline soldier. The column has halted. The four tanks are spread out abreast. The Infantry Soldiers have dismounted from the tanks and take shelter behind them. Wardaddy scans the town with German binoculars. His jaw muscles ripple as he grinds his teeth. - typical small North German village. Houses and shops clustered around a couple intersections. He gets on the company net... Baker Six from Love One-Six. don't see white sheets. And nobody's out. think we're looking at a fight. Over. Baker Six copies. Higher wants this place secured by fifteen hundred German O'clock. Go ahead and get in there. Mortar section's standing by. They're all we got so don't get in trouble. Baker Six from Love One-Six. Wilco. Commencing assault from now. Over. Wardaddy grabs the mic for the platoon net. All tanks. Listen up, we're going in. Move out. And let's button up until we know what's in there. Love One-Three, take the right, outside that line of buildings. One Four, you take the left, I'll take point on the wedge. Binkowski, you're on me. Stay twenty yards off my ass. The four tanks move forward toward the town. Love 1-3 and Love 1-4 leave the road and split off around either side of the village. The tanks move slow- - so the Platoon Soldiers on foot can keep up. The Fury enters the sleepy rural village. Nobody is in sight. Except for a bent in a doorway. Grandpa. Where are the German soldiers? The Old Man points at a down the road. single rifle shot hits the Old Man, dropping him instantly. Wardaddy grabs the handles of his .50 Cal and lets it rip on the Hotel building. Thumbsized armor piercing bullets smash into the Hotel. Blasting off chunks of masonry. Bible, follow my burst. Throw a round of into that open second story window. On the way - The cannon fires, the round impacts the building. The round dropping most of the second story facade - exposing 6 stunned by the blast. The Platoon Soldiers crouched behind the Fury eagerly light them up with their rifles. Norman's face is pressed against his periscope. - runs right in front of the tank. Without thinking Norman opens fire. Dropping the German to the street. His rifle across the cobblestones. Norman realizes that he did. He leans back and takes a deep breath. Gordo pats his shoulder. That's all it is. Keep going. Good one, kid. Keep stacking 'em up. Norman wipes the sweat from his brow. Settles in behind the periscope. Hunting for more targets. Platoon Soldiers take cover in doorways. Staying close to walls. They kick in doors and methodically clear each building. The Fury and Love 1-5 slowly advance. Wardaddy is two stories high in his turret... - in a second story window aims a submachine gun at him... Wardaddy - Almost face to face with the German - Grabs his assault rifle and aims. - Killing the soldier. Wardaddy scans the upper stories around him for more threats. German heavy machine gun opens up. It is cleverly dug into a cellar in the base of a building. Its chainsaw roar echoes off the buildings. Its deadly tracers rake the street... Two Platoon Soldiers are hit and drop - The Machine gun is too close to the Fury for the tank to get a good shot. Binkowski, see that Kraut stinger in the cellar there? Mind giving him what for? Sure, Daddy. I'll slap him around. You better button up. Wardaddy gets inside the turret. Closes his hatch. Wardaddy watches through his periscope... 1-5 fires a High Explosive shell right next to Fury... The shell blasts a hole in the building's exterior wall. Silencing the machine gun. Falling brickwork lands on the Fury... Wardaddy opens his hatch, bricks cover the tank. German Soldier staggers out of the exposed building. Bleeding from the ears and disoriented... Wardaddy pulls his .45 and takes careful aim - Drops him with one shot - Then out of nowhere: German anti-tank shell glances off the turret with a and smashes into the building. Wardaddy is stunned by the close call. Wiping his eyes, choking on brick dust... - Small German antitank gun is hidden inside a tailor shop. The crew frantically reloading. Antitank! Left! Fox Love! Phosphorous! Five zero! Fire when ready! We see the amazing skill of an experienced tank crew. Coon- Ass unloads the High Explosive shell in the breech and shoves in a - Bible traverses the turret on the target. Gordo works the steering levers bringing the thick armor of the tank's front to face the enemy gun... Norman joins in - Firing a long burst into the Tailor ship. His tracer rounds bouncing off the guns armor shield... The Fury and her turret spin quickly - Lining up on the tailor shop. - The white phosphorous shell detonates inside. Explodes with a white burst of noxious smoke - Spraying burning phosphorous particles everywhere... The four man flees into the street. Trailing white smoke - Phosphorous burning deep into their flesh. Norman mows them all down. All four men. Ending their misery. - We can see his eyes through the glass prism. Norman gawks through the periscope at their smoking corpses. It sinks in what he's done. He doesn't like it. Gunner, put an in there. Smash that gun. The Fury fires a High Explosive shell into the Tailor Shop. Not taking any chances. The Fury continues forward. Its steel tracks on the cobblestones of the tiny farming village. Love 1-5 follows close behind into upper story windows. The Platoon Soldiers filter through the buildings behind them. Checking for enemy soldiers. Small teams of soldiers leapfrogging up the street. All business. Unhurried and cautious. The Fury and Love 1-5 enter the square and spread out. Each covering their respective sides. door opens... Wardaddy swings his .50 Cal on an older man waving a white pillowcase - He's the town White sheets suddenly appear from several windows. The Burgermeister cautiously approaches the Fury. Please. Stop shooting. The remaining soldiers wish to surrender. am trying to save my village. The people have suffered so much. Thank your buddy Hitler for that. Where are the German soldiers? How many are there and what weapons do they have? They are in the bank. There are thirty. They are not soldiers. They are children. The made them fight. He points at a hanging from a lamppost with another of those damn signs am a coward" You tell them to come out with their hands held high and empty. All tanks, hold your fire until say so. got the mayor here and think they're surrendering. Binkowski load an and get ready to put it in that bank if these people want to test us. Wardaddy nods for the Burgermeister to go ahead. He crosses to the bank, under dozens of watchful American weapons. Wardaddy scanning the area for threats. It's tense. The Burgermeister for the soldiers to come out. - The front doors open. line of dejected kids emerges in eclectic uniforms. and Their hands held high, faces scared. The Platoon Soldiers surge forward and search them. Among them is an his arm in a sling. Wardaddy points him out to the Burgermeister. Is he the man who has been hanging the children? The Burgermeister looks nervous - The Officer is glaring right at him. Nevertheless, the Burgermeister nods: Yes. Hey! Shoot that guy! Yeah, him. The cocksucker with the busted wing. Without hesitation, a young pulls the Officer from the line, aims his Tommy gun at him and... Stitches the hardened Nazi from crotch to throat. The Burgermeister gives Wardaddy a grateful nod. - The Company vehicles have joined the tanks. With the day's work over for them, Baker Company's swarm over the town, searching houses, collecting weapons. stack the dead Germans. treat the wounded. drags a mattress down the street. Another sits in a big stuffed chair on the sidewalk smoking a cigar. Dig in! We're gonna be here a while! Bible scoops helmet-fulls of empty machine gun brass out of the turret. Gordo sleeps under the tank. Coon-Ass boils water in his helmet over a fire of made of broken chair legs. Norman stands outside the Fury trying to comprehend what he has seen. Wardaddy approaches him. Offers his hand. Norman shakes. Wary of this volatile veteran. It wasn't nothing right? Come again, Sergeant? Rubbing out them Heinies. You splashed 'em real good. Wasn't nothing right? Norman looks at Wardaddy - realizes he Norman to agree with him - To agree it's nothing to kill people. As if Norman can give Wardaddy absolution for all the men he's killed. Norman lies and tells him what he wants to hear. Sure, Sergeant. It wasn't nothing. In face, kinda liked it. Norman is a bad liar. Wardaddy thinks for a moment. Then: want you to see something. Wardaddy leads Norman down the street - to the front door of the local Wardaddy pushes the door open. He and Norman gaze upon a shocking sight... - There are several dead men and women. The men wear Nazi Party uniforms, middle-aged fat bureaucrats. The women wear party dresses. Presumably their wives. Empty booze bottles everywhere. Several of the men hold pistols. They knew we were coming. So they got drunk as Lords and shot themselves at sun up. beat as Norman stares at this mad tableau... Why are you showing me this? You know why. Wardaddy walks away. Norman follows. Wardaddy and Norman head down the street. Two GIs pass them clutching wine bottles - both wear top hats and sunglasses. Keep doing what say. You do that and you'll get through this thing. - searching a building heave a dumpster out the window. It bursts open on the cobblestone street. Wardaddy a face in the window on the upper floor of a nearby apartment building. He quickly heads for =it. C'mon. What'd you see? Krauts. Wardaddy grabs Norman's greasegun - cocks it and hands it back. He takes the safety off his assault rifle and boots the front door. Wardaddy quickly charges up the stairs... Norman follows. They reach an apartment door on the top story. Wardaddy it with the stock of his assault rifle. opens the door - Her name is - The fear on her face is plain as day. Who's in here? Just me. Bullshit. Wardaddy forces his way inside. It has surprisingly modern furniture and decor. Wardaddy quickly searches the place. Norman follows him around like a puppy. Wardaddy checks closets. Cupboards. Anywhere a human being can hide. He enters a bedroom and looks under the bed - is hiding underneath. Get out of there. Right now. Hurry up. Norman watches a gorgeous young lady slide out from under the bed. This is - she's 18 - Norman's age. Wardaddy helps her up. Norman is transfixed by her. Wardaddy drags Emma from the bedroom by her wrist. Wardaddy turns to Norman. Close the door and lock it. Norman freezes - Things are going to a bad place. Lock the fucking door! Norman complies. Slowly closing and locking the front door. Irma is just sick with fear. Please, leave her alone. You said nobody was in here. You could have gotten her killed. She's my cousin. I'm sorry. Please. was afraid of -- - know what you were afraid of. Wardaddy pushes Emma onto the couch. Then sits down in a chair. He takes off his helmet. Leans his rifle against the wall. Suddenly looking very tired. He looks at Irma. Get me some hot water. For shaving. Sit the fuck down. Put the gun away. You make me nervous. Norman stiffly sits on the couch with Emma. It's awkward. Like a bad blind date. What's your name young lady? Emma. Emma, you know how to cook? The girl nods: yes. Wardaddy reaches in his musette bag. Digs out a soap dish. He opens it and carefully unwraps four eggs - Precious rare eggs. Then he takes out a can of coffee. And a can of bacon. He offers the rare treasures to Emma. Her eyes light up and she joyfully accepts them. As a bonus Wardaddy gives her two packs of smokes. She happily joins Irma in the kitchen. Norman relaxes. Wardaddy isn't here to rape and kill them. Norman takes off his helmet. And takes off his jacket. In the kitchen - Irma savoring an American cigarette as she cooks bacon and eggs. She sips from her cup of fresh coffee. The first in years. Norman is asleep on the couch. Wardaddy stands before a pot of steaming hot water. He has peeled off his jacket, overalls and shirt - Hideous burn scars cover his back. Emma crosses to Norman and gently wakes him, offers him a steaming cup of coffee. Norman smiles at her. He likes her. She smiles back. She likes him. She sits next to him. Thigh to thigh. Norman Wardaddy's burns and - Embarrassed by them, Wardaddy puts his shirt back on. Emma holds Norman's hand. Then tries to pull him off the couch. Norman realizes where this is going. And blushes. He shakes his head: no. Wardaddy slides a fresh blade in his safety razor. She's a good clean girl. You don't take her in that bedroom, will. Emma intuits what Wardaddy has said and clings to Norman's arm. Norman looks at Wardaddy. At the girl. Wardaddy doesn't really want her. But Norman doesn't know that. Norman makes his decision. He leads Emma into the bedroom. She shuts the door behind them. Wardaddy smiles. Like a proud big brother. He works up a good lather with his shaving brush. - Irma steps out of the kitchen, arms crossed, with a disapproving look. They're young. And they're alive. He carefully scrapes off the dirt and whiskers with the sharp razor. Irma stands there smoking, watching him shave. It's nice having a man in the house. You speak good German. know. He's not interested in her. She was hoping he was. She returns to the kitchen. Coon-Ass has been waiting impatiently inside the Fury. Finally Gordo exits the tank turret, buttoning his trousers with a satisfied look. Batter up. Coon-Ass climbs into the tank. Bible looks on disapprovingly. hope you get scabies. Burnt motor oil kills the little fuckers right off. I'll save a slice for you. You need to get your dick wet, sky pilot. Gordo grabs a wine bottle. Takes a swig. Where's Wardaddy? Daddy? Where you hiding? Don't leave your family on the street? Daddy?? Bible nods toward the Apartment Building. - Norman has her hand in his, he's reading her palm. This is the ring of Solomon. You help people. And understand them. It's really rare. See mine? got it too. He shows her his hand. Then continues her reading... This is your heart line. You're going to have one great love in your life. My grandma taught me how to do this. People came from all over to see her. Okay, this is your life line... Norman pauses. Looks at her. It's not good news. She sees the change in him. Decides to lighten the mood. Emma peels top off. Norman's eyes lock on her breasts. She's proud of them, as she should be. With the ice broken, Norman makes his move and kisses her. She takes his pants off. He's shy. She likes that. Don't be afraid. I'm not going to hurt you. don't know what you're saying. Emma shushes him with a finger. She rolls him on his back and mounts him. - Coon-Ass is screwing the very plump Pig fucking is a better description. Pure mindless carnality. How did she fit in the tank? Irma singing in German as she works in the kitchen. Norman exits the bedroom. Looking flushed and content. Wardaddy, now cleaned up, is a different man. Norman sits on the couch. Gathering his thoughts. You don't need to say nothing. They sit there in silence. Wardaddy sipping his coffee. Emma exits the bedroom. Glowing. She joins Irma in the kitchen who quietly scolds her. at the door. Wardaddy nods for Norman to get it. The women peer around the corner, frightened. Norman opens the door - It's Coon-Ass, Gordo, and Bible. The three men enter. Take off their helmets. Set down their weapons. Coon-Ass and Gordo are drunk. Boy, it's time for you to act the man. We got you fixed up good. special gal's down there waiting for you. You're too late. Emma brings the new arrivals glasses of beer. Coon-Ass drools over the beautiful young woman. She returns quickly to the kitchen. Bless your heart, boy. You took that pretty thing for a roll? Norman won't answer him. And that's answer enough. We're a team, right? Eat, shit, kill, fuck together. Right? That's right. Pass the plate, Norman. Make a donation to the cause. Y'all touch her and I'm kicking your teeth down your throats. Coon-Ass smiles. Rubs Wardaddy's smooth face. You're so pretty, can fuck you? Have at it. There's a jar of grease in the kitchen. Sissy bastard. Coon-Ass regards a photograph on the wall. young man in Army uniform. He takes it down, dismayed. Who's the goddamn Nazi? Coon-Ass charges into the kitchen with it - Indignantly waves the picture at Irma... Who's the fucking Nazi, lady? My husband. He died in Russia. Wardaddy appears behind Coon-Ass and takes the photo from him. He gently hands it to Irma. I'm sorry for your loss. Norman is touched by this respectful side of Wardaddy. Coon- Ass sits down. Pulls a bottle from his jacket and takes a swig. Coon-Ass hands it to Norman. And stares at him with angry bloodshot eyes... You best take a bite. Norman hesitates, then takes a swig. Winces from the burn. Sure that's not gasoline? Pure white lightning. Some of the Georgia boys cooked it up. Suddenly there's a followed by a from outside. Emma and Irma trade scared looks. Norman gets up and looks out the window... - exits the bank with an arm load of Reichsmarks and tosses them in the air. Get back from that window. Before those drunk ass fools kill the hell out of you. Norman carefully backs away. Norman, Wardaddy, Coon-Ass, and Bible sit at the table eating bacon and eggs. Emma toasts thin slices of black bread. Irma pours the men little glasses of Schnapps. She sets a glass in front of Wardaddy. He pushes it away with his finger. No thank you. You like horses? told you, I'm a city kid. Don likes horses. Right, Don? I'm eating. We're eating. In France we hit the beach right after Day and fought through all those fucking hedgerows. We finally broke out into open country. And bypassed all these Kraut divisions. We linked up with the Canadians and British and trapped an entire Kraut Army pulling back to Germany. We fucked them up. With planes and artillery. Dead Krauts and horses and busted up tanks and cars for miles. Miles. Your eyes see it but your head can't make no sense of it. We go in there. And for three whole days we shot wounded horses. All day long. Sun up to sundown. Putting down horses. Hot summer days. Ain't smelled nothing like it. The sound of it. Those fucking horses screaming. Black clouds of flies buzzing. Like being in a giant bee hive. Norman's eyes bug. He's lost his appetite. That's really a fine story. Pleasant meal time talk. Thank you. It's what happened. And what happened happened. And what's gonna happen is gonna happen. And playing house with a couple bitch Krauts won't change much, will it? Shut the fuck up. The seventh seal's broken, buddy. You can't put the shit back in the horse. Wardaddy pulls his .45 And it on the table. Coon-Ass backs down. painfully tense silence follows. Wardaddy's fork scrapes against his plate as he shovels eggs and bacon into his mouth. Finally he looks at Norman. Smiles warmly. Your mama a good cook? She's a really good cook. How's her fried chicken? She doesn't fry chicken. She roasts it with stuffing. Or makes chicken and dumplings. That's my favorite. She bakes too. Pies and cakes and -- at the door. Norman gets up and answers. It's the Where's Love One-Six? Right here. Old Man wants you. How come? You got a mission. The men look at each other. Their short respite is over. Wardaddy finishes his coffee. Pushes his chair back and stands. His men stand too. If you'll excuse us, please. (to the guys) Let's go. He crosses, grabs his helmet and weapon. Where are you going? To take the next town. And the next one. And the next one. Until you people quit. What's going to happen to us? don't know. Irma stands stoically. Hands folded in front of her. Lips pursed. Norman grabs his greasegun. Slips on his helmet. It's hateful to leave. Just hateful. Emma runs to him and holds on to him for dear life. Coon-Ass grabs the boy by the scruff and drags him away. There's a lot more of them. To the Company Messenger, on his way out - the women... Make sure none of the boys give them a hard time. Inside a nice house with antiques and Persian rugs. Captain Waggoner goes over a map with Wardaddy. Grasshopper spotted a troop concentration moving west. Higher wants your armor guarding these crossroads in Ohio Queen on the overlay. How many troops he see? Enough to spook the Colonel. Road march to the crossroads and secure them. Don't for anything. Take my gas if you need it. Wardaddy looks at the map, makes some notes in a notebook. Alright, sir. I'm on my way. Suddenly there is a loud of incoming German Artillery - Wardaddy, the Captain, the and hit the deck... group of plays blackjack on a blanket. Gambling for piles of watches and jewelry. Norman and Gordo pouring gas into the Fury. - German artillery shells explode all around them. Bible drops into the turret, closes the hatch. Gordo slides off the tank and crawls underneath. Norman follows. Coon-Ass already there. grinning fool. What? was ticked off we were leaving. Don't seem so bad now. Germans can flatten this town for all care. large shell strikes Irma's apartment building, collapsing the front. Then everything is obscured by dust and smoke... - Though brief, the shelling has transformed the little village. Buildings burn. Others have collapses. is heavily damaged. crawls along the street crying for his mama, his legs are missing, just two stumps trailing blood. Norman runs to the apartment building - At the smoking rubble pile that was its facade moments before. He stops in his tracks and looks up... - Irma's shattered body hanging from a splintered mass of wood floorboards... Next Norman Emma is crushed and mixed into the rubble. She's gasping for her last breath... Norman shakes off the blow and starts to dig out Emma, desperate, frantic - Coon-Ass grabs him and drags him away. You think you're Jesus Christ? You gonna raise her up? She's done. She is done. Norman starts throwing punches. Coon-Ass lets him vent, easily blocking them. There you go. Get mad. Get mad. What the fuck is wrong with you!? What the fuck is wrong with everyone? Nobody cares about anything. What the fuck is happening? Bored with being punched, Coon-Ass throws Norman to the ground. Kicks him in the ass. It's called war. Quit your cussin' and fightin' and get your spindly ass in that tank, boy. The four tank engines to life. Wardaddy does a quick check of the Fury's tracks. Norman sits in the seat. Tears streak his dusty face. Gordo looks at him. Sympathetic. Sorry about your lady friend. Norman ignores him. Here comes Sgt. Davis helping his to his tank, he can barely walk. He wounded? Naw, drunk. Sgt. Davis pours the man into the front hatch and mounts his tank. The Captain approaches Wardaddy. We'll hook up with you in the morning. Good luck. Thank you, sir. He shakes the Captain's hand. sniper's bullet rips out the Captain's throat, dropping him on the spot. -- Six is down! -- -- Sniper! -- They got the Old Man! -- Wardaddy is up into the Fury like a shot. He drops shut his hatch... Move out! Let's go! All tanks from One-Six. Sniper's in those goddamn buildings on the right! Make 'em go away. What are you waiting for? - The main gun fires. Coon-Ass slams home a fresh shell. Clear! - Bible fires another. The Fury fires again and again... - Safe beneath his closed hatch, he sees Norman has his head exposed - He grabs the kid and yanks him down... Stupid. You wanna die? Norman glares at him. With a new hardness that takes Gordo by surprise. - row of four hundred year old buildings is destroyed in just over a minute. Their roofs can be seen collapsing through clouds of thick dust and shattering explosions as the tanks pump high explosive shells into them. Into radio: All tanks cease fire. If that didn't get him nothing will. Let's get the fuck out of here. The four tanks of 1st Platoon Love Company pull out for their next mission. Wardaddy leads the way in the Fury. They are the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse - Leaving behind a town transformed. Blood in the streets. Stacks of dead. Burning buildings. Piles of rubble. Open flat farm country. The occasional farm building. The column of four tanks moves fast. Wardaddy keys the intercom. Norman. Get your ass up here. Norman looks at Wardaddy. Who waves for him to join him. Norman carefully climbs out of his hatch. And picks his way across the moving tank. Wardaddy pats the big .50 Cal machine gun. Why don't you sit up here for a bit and run this baby. Norman grabs the spade grips and stands behind the turret. His face is angry stone. Wardaddy seems relaxed. Almost enjoying the beautiful country. He looks at Norman. know how you feel. You have no idea how feel. Today... Look, what happened back there. Is every day. It's every day. Today's the worst day of my life. Like said, that's every day. If you think it can't get worse, it can. And it will. started this war killing Germans in Africa. Then France. Then Belgium. Now I'm killing Germans in Germany. It will end. Soon too. But before it does a lot more people gotta die. Wardaddy points out a massive column of black smoke in the distance. The herald of destruction on an unbelievable level. It is the death of a city. See that? That's a whole city on fire. bet that's where those bombers were heading. The dying ain't done. The killing ain't done. Norman tries to understand the enormity of what he is witnessing. He can't. They ride in silence for a beat. My mother was born near here. think right there in that city burning to the ground. got no problem killing my kin. How'd you get all burnt up? My back? Germans did it? That why you hate them so much? No. did it. Before the war. Before the Army. had a beautiful girl was gonna marry. Rose. She made me feel like a fucking king. Pretty like one of those old paintings. She was good. good person. She had a good heart. Wardaddy looks at Norman. Not sure if he should continue. He does... drank then. I'd get asshole drunk and Rose hated it. There was a dance in town. With a band from Wichita. had her old man's truck. My little brother came with us. He was sixteen. And looked just like you. With the same "I'm smarter than everyone else around me" expression you got. And he was. Book smart and people smart. good kid. Well drank two bottles of nickel whisky and got in a punch-up at the dance with this big Indian. K.O.ed him with a bottle. I'm not your bartender and I'm not your pastor. You don't need to tell me this. And ain't your friend. You're listening 'cause someone has to hear. The sheriff got called so shoved Rose and my brother in the truck and drove off like my hair was on fire. Yep, like a real shithead. Pedal to the mat. Hit an ice patch and flipped it. got thrown and ended up under it. The engine right on my back, cooked me like Sunday's beef roast. Rose and my brother got their necks broken. Whole county hated me for it. got the chain gang. laid roadbeds. Worked cotton. Mule teams. War started and the Judge told me to die for my country. Best advice ever got. Norman looks out on the German countryside. Then at Wardaddy. Despite his age, Norman has a strong, quiet wisdom. Does it matter now? Does it matter here? Does to me. You killed them. know what did. You're already dead. don't disagree. Been with these fine gentlemen since nineteen forty two. And they don't know none of this. Not a word of it. Keep it that way. Norman will keep his secret. was born in the caul. Where's that? caul. birth shroud around my head. So see things. Sometimes know things are going to happen. And people tell me things. Since was little. Bad things. Confessions. I'm used to it. Don't worry, you'll get your wish. When said you were already dead it didn't mean anything but what it means. You're going in the ground soon. Wardaddy likes hearing that. He looks at Norman. You're a strange one, Norman. My brother's name was Norman. Norman - Not to Wardaddy - But to the terribly thin corpses filling the ditches on either side of the road. They wear the infamous striped pajamas of the camp system. They were shot after collapsing during a forced march. Why are they so thin? They're from the concentration camps. They starve 'em to death there. Are they criminals? No. They're just people. Regular people. Germans are marching them around to keep them from us. Rather have them dead than free. dig a tank ditch through a couple farmer's fields. They stop working and stare in awe as Wardaddy's four tanks race right past them on the unblocked road. Wardaddy a magazine from his assault rifle into the air. Civilians hit the dirt or drop their shovels and run. Wardaddy laughs. The four tanks have stopped by a low hill. Wardaddy and Sgt. Davis are on their bellies at the top of the hill studying the shallow valley below with binoculars. couple miles away is the the tanks are to protect. few farm buildings dot the landscape. It is deceptively calm and bucolic. What are you thinking, Don? There's the crossroads. We'll set our picket line along that defiladed area to the right. You'll be outpost tank by that little hill with the trees. Sounds copacetic. Let's get in position before dark. German Army moves at night. wanna be ready for 'em. Let's go. Wardaddy and Sgt. Davis crawl back towards their tanks. The tanks head for the crossroads. Norman is back in the front right hatch. 1-5 - The last in the tank column -- - Is suddenly hit by a high velocity gun... It's turret is blown into the air - The tank instantly burns a maelstrom of gasoline, explosives, and gun propellant... Fuck! Where the fuck did that come from? Driver! Reverse! All tanks, back up! Get behind the rise on the right. Everyone button up. The three remaining tanks quickly reverse and spread out. Wardaddy scanning with binoculars. Looking very worried. What the fuck was it? That was an 88. It's a goddamned tank. - glowing high-velocity shell hits the ground and ricochets in front of the Fury. Tank! Three O'clock! Eight hundred yards! Wardaddy whips his binoculars to 3 O'clock... - near a barn in a hay field. Tigers are the deadliest tank of the war. Wardaddy's three Shermans are hopelessly outgunned, worse, a Tiger's armor is nearly impervious to their cannons. see it. It's a goddamned Tiger. Bible, get an eyeball on him and send it. got him! On the way! - The Fury fires. Its glowing shell strikes the front of the distant Tiger and ricochets off harmlessly. Let's get the fuck out of here. Unless he drowns himself in a shit filled ditch, it's up to us to kill him. C'mon, hit that sonofabitch! -- All three tanks open fire on the Tiger... All tanks! Fast right turn! Right at him. Let's bumrush this cocksucker. Turn on your gyros! Shoot and scoot! The three tanks stop backing up - They quickly turn toward the Tiger and accelerate right at him! Firing their cannons as fast as they can. Three little Davids versus one Goliath - The Tiger aims at Love 1-4, the middle tank... - The 88 cannon shell misses the Sherman - But hits Sgt. Peterson - Taking his head right off. - The Sherman's keep firing. Quickly closing the distance to the massive German tank... Tense faces. Bible focuses on the target. Coon-Ass stands by with a fresh shell - Bible fires... - Coon-Ass loads the cannon... - They keep pumping rounds into the massive German tank. - Staring at the Tiger through his periscope. He opens fire... - His .30 Cal spits empty brass as it jackhammers slugs at the armored enemy monster. - His tracer rounds splash harmlessly against the German tank. - The Tiger again fires at the middle tank... - Its shell strikes the turret and goes right through. The fatally wounded Sherman rolls to a stop, gushing yellow smoke. The and bail out... The Tiger opens fire with its machine gun - Splattering the two poor tankers... Fucking animals! Load a white phosphorous. Blind the bastard! Coon-Ass loads a phosphorous shell. Clear! Bible, ever cool under fire, takes careful aim and toes the firing pedal - The white phosphorous shell bursts with a large cloud of dense white smoke. Burning clumps of phosphorous cover the Tiger... The Fury and Sgt. Davis' tank are damn close to the powerful Tiger. They are now passing down its right side... Here we go. Shoot at the back third, under the track. Fire when ready. know where to hit him. So shoot the sumbitch! -- The shot was high, it glances off the Tiger... The monster's turret is turning toward the Fury... -- The Fury fires - - Its round pierces the Tiger's gas tank. Black smoke erupts from its engine deck... Hit 'em again! In the sweet spot. Another money shot into the Tiger's engine compartment. The big tank grinds to a stop. The five abandon their tank - They wear sinister black uniforms... The Fury charges the burning tank. Wardaddy shoulders his assault rifle - He's about to light up the running German tankers when... - The give Tiger Crewmen are shot to pieces. It's Norman doing the shooting. He's becoming a real motherfucker. He reloads his machine gun... That's it, kid. Fuck those Krauts. How'd that feel, Norm? Norman cocks his machine gun - Like nothing. This time he means it. - Bible wipes his face with a rag. Coon-Ass refills the ready rack with ammo... Where'd a Tiger come from? German army ain't supposed to have no gas. The sun is low in the sky. Another bloody day is nearing its conclusion. Wardaddy sits in the Fury's turret. He lost two more tanks, now just burning wrecks. He watches the Tiger burn for a moment, his jaw grinding. Sgt. Davis' tank pulls alongside the Fury. He's scared. Holy shit, Don. Binkowski and Peterson are gone. Florida Mike. Nicky Colletto. They got wives and kids. And Stan? Stan's fucking dead. They're all dead. know who's dead. What do we do? We do our job. Like we always do. can't have you all spooked. Can you shake it off? I'm not like you, Don. Nobody is. Check out the barn. Make sure there's no Krauts in there. The barn is a hundred yards away. Sgt. Davis heads to it in his tank, Love 1-3. He stops outside the barn doors. Wardaddy scans the area with his binoculars - Not a threat in sight... Sgt. Davis' gets out and pulls open the Barn's big double doors... - He's nearly cut in half with a long burst... The of a starting tank engine as emerges from the barn! - The Tiger fires its coaxial machine gun, spattering Sgt. Davis across his turret. Its huge cannon lines up on Love 1-3 and fires... - The point blank cannon shot tears through the Sherman like butter. The ammunition inside It is a violent and shattering detonation, the turret is thrown in the air, the side of the Sherman splits open like tin foil - Another tank dies... - He gets low in the turret... Tank! Hit it! Three rounds! Gordo! Get right on his ass. The Fury turns and lurches toward the big enemy tank... The Tiger accelerates out of the barn, colliding with the burning wreckage of Davis' tank, shoving it aside... Bible traverses the turret. It feels like it's taking forever to aim the main gun at the Tiger... Gordo double clutches and puts the Fury in 3rd gear. He stomps the gas pedal, white knuckling the steering levers. - Bible fires. Missing the tank... - The second Tiger is looming damn close - Its turret traversing to line up a shot on the Fury... Okay, here we go! You want me to hit him? Don't hit him, you dumbass! Make a tight turn around him! Drive around him and stay close as you can get! Just keep moving! Bible, keep hitting him! - The Tiger fires... - It's a glancing strike against the side of the Fury causes a burst of inside. The noise and shock of the impact stun Gordo and Norman... sprays everywhere... There is a where the round struck the hull. The Fury fills with smoke. Norman is bleeding from his scalp... I'm hit! I'm hit! Gordo ignores the chaos, keeps driving at the Tiger... Gordo! Any damage? dunno. She still drives. Bible works the power traverse grip - Something's wrong... - The shell damaged its mechanism. lost the power traverse! He switches to the - Turning it frantically. The Fury's turret now turning slower - This is very bad... -- Bible fires again... - The Armor Piercing shell bounces harmlessly off the Tiger's turret... It's a close range tank duel - The two tanks are now just yards apart. Smoke from the burning Sherman's washes over the battle-locked armored vehicles. That's it! Gordo, drive in a circle around him. We can move faster than he can swing his gun. - As its turret tries to catch up to the Fury. The smaller, more agile American tank easily drives in a circle around the Tiger... But the threatening of the Tiger's cannon is starting to catch up... Bible swinging the turret - Cranking the wheel as fast as he can. Sweat pours off his face as he hunts for the soft spot in the Tiger's armor. - Bible fires. The round just misses, plows into the ground... It's not that easy. We're moving too fast! Norman is scared shitless as he watches all this unfold through his periscope. He trades a worried, desperate look with Gordo. Wardaddy, only his head exposed, watches the Tiger. Instead of just driving in a straight line - The Tiger now turns toward the Fury - Its big cannon swinging faster... The Tiger is maneuvering to line up a shot and broadside the American Tank. Smart bastards... With his tank damaged, Wardaddy knows he better make a move or they are all going to die... Gordo, when saw back up, you back up! Bible stand by! I'll call the shot! Wardaddy waiting for just the moment - For the two moving tanks to align a certain way. The Tiger cannon is nearly in position to fire! Gordo! Now! Reverse! Reverse! The Fury jolts to a stop - The same time as: - The Tiger fires... The cannon rips the sandbags off the front of the Fury, missing anything vital. The Fury is backing up... The Tiger realizes what is afoot - It starts turning in the other direction to protect its vulnerable engine compartment, its huge tracks chewing up the earth... Bible! Steady. Steady. Steady... Wardaddy waiting for just the right moment. Excruciating tension as the two steel beasts dance around each other... Now! - The Fury's cannon fires into the Tiger's ass... The round rips through the engine and fuel tanks. There is a fireball of burning gasoline... Again! Coon-Ass feeds a fresh shell into the cannon breech... Clear! Bible stomps the foot pedal... - the round punches through the soft armor in the rear of the tank and penetrates the crew compartment... The ammunition inside The Tiger shudders to a stop. The Driver's Hatch opens -- Belching a column of flame. The tries to escape. But the flames are too intense. He's incinerated right before Wardaddy's eyes... Bible breathes a sigh of relieve. Tank destroyed. Wardaddy puts an arm around Bible... Good shooting. I'm the instrument. Not the hand. God didn't want us today. Norman sags in his seat, exhausted by the tension. Wardaddy drops inside the turret. Grabs the radio mic - Realizes the radios are trashed... Radio's are eighty-sixed. We're on our lonesome until Baker Company shows up. Coon-Ass lights a smoke with shaking hands. Gordo wipes the grit from face with a sleeve. quit. Fuck the Army. You can put me in the stockade. Take away my name and birthday. Find another driver. Quit? Quit?! Boy, we get a dollar thirty five a day plus free chow and smokes. goddamn paid European vacation. Best job had. Coon-Ass wasn't trying to be funny. He's shaken to his core. Wardaddy lets them vent. He passes Gordo a bottle of brandy. Gordo takes it and downs a long swig. Wardaddy Norman sitting there quietly. Covered with hydraulic oil and blood. Staring into space. Having a good time, kid? Norman looks at Wardaddy and shakes his head thinking "What the fuck is wrong with these people." Wardaddy smiles. He knows Norman will be okay. We're still open for business. Let's head to the crossroads and keep 'em out of Kraut hands like we've been told. With one busted-ass tank? In case you ain't noticed, we're it. Platoon's gone. The entire platoon. Are they? I'm sorry, didn't notice. Don, you can be a real callous bastard sometimes. We got a job to do. We can sit here and bitch about it. Or we can go down to those crossroads and bitch about it there. don't see a hell of a lot of difference, do you? That's real inspiring. Shit, now wanna storm the gates of Hell and snatch Satan off his throne by his balls. Norman turns to Wardaddy and deadpans: That's not really true. He just said it to be an asshole. Norman just took the sarcasm to another level. The veteran tankers stare at Norman -- He is becoming one of them... The sun is setting. The Fury moves up the road approaching the rural tree lined intersection with an and a - There isn't a soul in sight. Wardaddy scans the terrain with his binoculars. He's looking for a good spot to park the Fury for the night. The tank is moving through the intersection. - The Fury runs over a mine - The explosion lifts the tank and drops it. The broken left track falls off the drive wheel... It was a damn hard whack -- Dust and smoke fill the interior. Rations and ammunition spill from its racks. electrical shorts. Fuck! Another Tiger! Calm down. It's a mine. We hit a mine is all. Gordo shakes it off. The engine stalls. He restarts it. Puts it in gear. Lets up the clutch. The tank starts turning in a circle. We threw a track! Wardaddy aiming his .50 Cal at the nearby buildings. Coon-Ass exits the turret. Examines the broken track and the smoking crater the mine made. She's broke as fuck. Busted a shock too. You fix it? Yeah. Why not? Norman! Get out here! Norman exits his hatch - He's afraid to jump down to the road... What about mines? They're for vehicles. You ain't heavy enough to set one off. Go with Coon-Ass and check out those buildings. I'm covering you. Go on. Norman looks at Coon-Ass, who shrugs. They approach the Old House just up the road... - Coon-Ass kicks the door. Norman joins him inside. Both men freeze... - The Interior of the house is filled with mines. Big round anti-tank mines to be exact. Stacks of them. It's being used as a munitions depot. Coon-Ass slowly backs out of there... Don't touch nothin'. Not planning on it. Gordo and Bible have started unbolting a section of track from Fury's side. Coon-Ass shouts to Wardaddy: Whole thing's full of mines. Good thing you didn't shoot the shit out of it or we'd be drinking whiskey with Jesus. Maybe will anyway. could use a drink. Keep going. What's in the other house? Coon-Ass kicks the door. Enters with Norman. This place is disturbing in a different way. There is dried blood everywhere. Bandages. Medical supplies. Cut off bloody uniforms and boots. Amputated limbs. Flesh. Organs. And a half-dozen who succumbed to battle wounds. This was a temporary field hospital. At least there ain't no live Krauts to worry about. It is beyond creepy in here... Can we go now? Coon-Ass and Norman return to the Fury. Gordo uses a track breaking tool to remove the damaged track links. Bible probes the road around them for more mines. Anything? Naw, nothing. Kid, head up by those trees. You got outpost guard. Norman nods and heads up the road. Norman sits in the roadside ditch. He checks his greasegun. It's loaded. He sets it in his lap. He adds drink powder to his canteen. Shakes it. He opens a can of crackers with his little can opener. He chews the hard crackers and washes them down with his canteen. He yawns widely. He's physically and emotionally drained from his first day as a Army tanker. After being in a tank he feels so alone and exposed out here. He something. Scared, he raises his ugly black weapon. It's just an in the trees. Norman relaxes. He can't keep his eyes open. His head falls toward his chest. His heavy eyelids close. And he falls asleep. - Norman startles awake. Gasping for breath. Dreaming he was shot. He checks himself for holes. And relaxes - It was just a dream... He berates himself for falling asleep. He gets on his knees. To a less comfortable position. Then he freezes. And his eyes grow wide. - Moving toward him along the dark road is a long column of silhouettes. - Marching toward him. lot of them. More than he's ever seen. There are several hundred. And there's something about the way they move. These aren't shuffling demoralized conscripts. These are healthy, well equipped combat troops - And they are heading his way... Norman thinks for a moment. He has to warn the others... He gets low and slowly backs down the ditch... Gordo, Coon-Ass, and Bible work on repairing the track. Wardaddy sits in the turret, a deadly alert sentry with his big machine gun. He can't see the approaching men. Here comes Norman at a full run... Why good evening, Norman. Why aren't you at your post? They're coming. Who's coming? The Germans. How many? More than can count. Wardaddy climbs down from the turret. I'm sure it's some bums looking for someone to surrender to. Keep working. I'll be right back. Wardaddy and Norman head up the road... Wardaddy and Norman move low along the ditch. Wardaddy the approaching troops - Silhouettes in the darkness. He can just hear their hobnailed boots the road. He grabs Norman's arm and drags him out of there. ...c'mon... Wardaddy and Norman come running. There's a goddamned battalion headed this way. Bullshit. Bible sees he's dead serious... Where are they? Marching this way. Wardaddy's mind is racing - They face hopeless odds. Let's get out of here. They'll never see us in the dark. Let 'em pass through. We're not running. We're fighting it out. We'll hold this damn crossroad. His men look at him like he's insane. This is unlike anything they have ever done. You wanna set here in a busted tank and hold off an battalion? No don't want to. But it's what we're doing. Mount up. Take your fighting positions. Wardaddy climbs aboard the Fury. His jaw tenses. It's okay with him. He double checks his .50 Cal. Go on. Get outta here. Norman looks at the other guys. Then at Wardaddy. He crosses to the Fury and stands by it, looking at the others with crossed arms. With that show of bravery, Gordo, Coon-Ass, and Bible have no choice but to follow suit. The three men approach the Fury. No one has any illusions - This somber, sober choice means their deaths. Wardaddy smiles. As much of a smile as he can muster. Then he's all business. We're gonna play dead, like we've done before. Let 'em march right up. Then open up with all we got and splatter the assholes all over the road. Grab us one of them dead Krauts. We gonna have a pig roast? Something like that. Coon-Ass Rushes off toward the Old House... Wardaddy grabs his knife and cuts several packs and dufflebags off the tank. He hands Norman a gas can... Give 'em a good soaking. Norman pours the gas on them. Gordo grabs extra boxes of ammo from the storage racks and shoves them into the tank. Bible is in the turret singing a hymn. He resets the fuzes on the cannon shells for close-in work. He wipes the main gun breech down. Cleans his optics. Oils the machine gun. Here comes Coon-Ass dragging a body... Hurry up with that sack 'a shit. Wardaddy jumps down to help. He tosses the body on the front of the tank. Pulls off his jacket and puts it on the body. Toss me that helmet. Norman tosses him an American helmet. Wardaddy straps it on the corpse's head. He grabs the gas can from Norman. Splashes the body with it. Wardaddy lights a smoke with a match. Then tosses the match on the body - Wardaddy lights another match and tosses it on the packs in the road - Satisfied, he surveys his work. Now they ain't gonna see nothing but a shot-out tank with a blown track. Get in. Button up. The men slip into the Fury and close the hatches. It looks like a bigger shit pile than when we first saw it, bathed in the firelight of the burning packs and the German corpse. Debris scattered around it, a broken track... Norman lines up boxes of ammunition for his machine gun. He wipes the gun with a rag. Gordo loads his submachine-gun. Stacks up extra magazines. He opens a case of grenades and removes their safety clips -- Pausing to swig from his bottle of brandy. Coon-Ass organizes the main gun rounds. We got four rounds of cannister. Four Willy Petes. Twenty three Supercharges and thirty three solid shots. Alright. Load cannister. Have the other three in your lap. What's cannister? Turns this cannon into a big fucking shotgun. Wardaddy pulls out a bottle of French Cognac. He opens it. Stares at it like it's the very gates of Hell. Bible is mortified Wardaddy is considering drinking it. What are you doing? Might as well get a little tight. Won't be around for the hangover. Don. No. Let the man have a taste. Wardaddy pours the booze in his mouth, it splashes down his cheeks. Norman watching him - If he didn't know they weren't going to live through this he does now. God that's better than good. Like warm honey dripping on my heart. He offers Bible the bottle. Bible takes it. He meditates on the demon liquor a beat. Then: know you hate me preaching, but what we're doing is a righteous act. There's a bible verse think about sometimes. Then heard the voice of the Lord saying, "Whom shall send? And who will go for us?" And said, "Here am Send me." That resonated. Bible sees it on the faces of the men. Book of Isaiah. Chapter Six. Bible is floored Wardaddy knew that... Yeah, Don. That's exactly right. Bible drinks from the bottle. Then hands it to Coon-Ass. Who takes a long pull. He passes it to Gordo. He takes a swig and passes to Norman. Norman finishes the bottle. Damn son, you're a fighting, fucking, drinking machine. Machine. That's it. That's your war name. christen thee "Machine." Machine! "Machine" - Norman likes the nickname. He smiles. This now makes him a full fledged member of the Fury's crew. Bible looking through the periscope - They're coming. The mood instantly switches to one of wary fear. The men take their places behind their weapons. Wardaddy watches the enemy draw closer through his periscope. ...nobody does nothing until say... - The column of is close. Helmets, boots, weapons clearly visible. They look surprisingly modern in their camouflage uniforms. Norman the marching closer. It's agonizing to wait and do nothing. His finger ready on the trigger of his machine gun... The fast marching Troopers quickly approach the Fury. Looking like nothing more than a disabled tank. An barks crisp orders. Reinhold, take your men and clear those structures. Hoehner, ensure the enemy tank is unoccupied. The split off and investigate the Old House and the Ten more rush ahead of the march column to investigate the Fury. They approach the tank. Unconcerned. Searching the various crates for rations and cigarettes like kids on Christmas morning. Two troopers climb aboard the tank. The crew listens to the movement around the tank. The of metal hobnailed boots against the tank's hull. It is hateful to do nothing. Bible's foot hovers above the firing button on the turret floor. Eyes glued to his periscope. Wardaddy waiting. Watching. grenade in each hand. Coon-Ass sweating bullets. Wondering why Wardaddy doesn't give the order to shoot. Norman's face pressed against his scope. He licks his lips. His mouth is bone dry. - He a reaching for his hatch... Norman aims his greasegun up at his hatch. Norman is scared shitless. His hatch opens revealing an astonished Trooper. Norman squeezes the trigger of his greasegun... - Blowing the Trooper off the tank. Alarm! Hit 'em! Everything happens at once... The Troopers in the road dive for cover... Bible stomps the foot switch... - The main gun fires... Norman pulls the hatch shut - - And opens up with the machine gun... Wardaddy pulls the pins of his grenades. He opens the "pistol door" on the side of the turret. Drops the grenades outside. Slams the door shut... Utter chaos - Cannon rounds tear into the column of men and - tumble like bowling pins... - Tracers from Fury's two .30 Cal machine guns slice into Troopers as they scramble for cover. Mowing them down... Wardaddy's grenades explode. Blowing the two Troopers off the top of the tank... The main gun fires again. More Troopers are killed... Several Troopers run into the buildings for shelter... and NCOs bark orders trying to create order from the madness. - Norman jackhammers long burst into running Troops. Bible fires the coax machine gun in long bursts... The tank filling with smoke from the firing weapons. Norman reloads his machine gun. Wardaddy watching the Troopers scatter and run... Keep squirting that coax! Traverse right! Steady...On! Fire! - Bible fires. The gun spits out the smoking brass shell. Coon-Ass shoves a fresh shell into the breech. Clear! - Wardaddy watching where it hits... Up fifteen! Right fifteen! Bible makes adjustments to the gun's hand wheels... Bow Gunner! Squirt those assholes running for the house. The gun fires. Norman shifts his fire... Okay! Loader. Four rounds of Willy Pete up. Bible put 'em in those buildings. Burn the fucking things to the ground, they're full 'a Krauts. Wardaddy's periscope spins 360-degrees as he turns to continually check the rear of the tank. Bible works the hand wheel and aims at the buildings. On the way! - He fires the Willy Pete shell... - The White Phosphorous shell hits the wood building and explodes with a spectacular burst of burning white hot streamers - It's like the 4th of July. The tracers, the explosions, the fires. The Troopers returning fire. What wildly beautiful chaos. - The Fury pumps three more phosphorous shells into the two buildings. The buildings start to burn. Bathing the area with a warm orange glow... Burning Troopers run out of the buildings... - They're cut down by the tank's machine guns. The fire backlights the Troopers making them easier for the Fury to spot. The Fury is filled with acrid blinding smoke from the spent gunpowder. Wardaddy watching the destruction... It's a fucking turkey shot. He takes a swig from a fresh bottle and lights a cigarette, his face shiny with sweat, his eyes burning with madness. The Coaxial machine is glowing So is Norman's machine gun. Suddenly Norman's gun - Cooking off rounds by itself, zipping through a fresh ammo belt... My gun's going crazy! Gordo twists the belt, stopping the runaway weapon... It's over heating! Don't let it burn up. Gordo puts on an asbestos glove and changes the red hot barrel with a fresh one. Norman reloads and keeps firing... - Bible steadily firing the main gun... - He a cluster of Troops hiding in a ditch - They shoot at the Fury - - bullet strikes his periscope shattering it... Wardaddy yanks out the broken periscope. Slaps a new one in its place. And continues his observation. Traverse right. Steady. Steady. Right there. Hit 'em! - Bible fires... - - The shell explodes in the ditch launching several in the air. The the coax machine gun jams - Red hot, hopelessly overheated. Wardaddy puts on asbestos gloves and wrestles it from its mount. He opens the turret's Pistol Door and tosses the red hot machine gun outside... He grabs a fresh machine gun pilfered from another tank. Locks it into place. Reloads it. Slow it down. Don't burn up the guns. - The new coax gun starts firing. The floor of the turret is covered with spent brass. Okay! Okay! No targets! Cease fire! If you don't see 'em, don't shoot 'em. Can't spare the ammo on guesswork. All firing stops. sudden deafening silence. Wardaddy turning his periscope looking for Troopers. We can be damn sure they're working their way behind us. Anyone see anything? No. Nothing. Me neither. Nine O'clock! Bazooka! - He whips the scope around and sees an Trooper aiming an anti-tank rocket at the tank! Traverse right! Traverse right! Cocksucker's got a panzerfaust! Bible turning the hand wheel as fast as he can. The turret steadily moving - Sweat pours off his face... The Trooper fires - - The anti-tank rocket right past Wardaddy's periscope, just missing the turret. - Norman sees a couple of running shadows... - He cuts them down. He's in the zone. Hunting for targets and hitting them... The turret lines up on the trees alongside the road. - Bible fires three canon rounds into the darkness. It's quiet again. Wardaddy looking for targets. He wipes the stinging sweat from his eyes with his sleeve. Then... - An anti-tank rocket explodes against the turret with a burst of red sparks... jet of molten steel plasma penetrates - Passing right through Coon-Ass and into the recoil tube of the cannon... The crew is stunned by the impact. Coon-Ass absorbed the brunt of the blast - smoking baseball size hole burned through his torso. He's dead. The recoil tube of the cannon leaks hydraulic fluid. There is a small fire. Wardaddy grabs the extinguisher and puts out the fire. The tank is filled with smoke and the stench of charred flesh. Bible embraces his dead comrade... Oh, Grady. Oh dear God. Please dear God have mercy on this man's soul. He's gone. We gotta fight. Bible will. He's furious. He mounts his seat - Then he realizes the main gun is damaged. Oil everywhere. Recoil assembly's shot. We can't fire the Stay on the 30. Keep knocking 'em down. Bible reloads the coaxial machine gun. Two boxes left. We need ammo. They listen to the bullets hitting the tank - It sounds like rain on tin... Wardaddy scans the area with the periscope. Doing a complete circle... - He sees muzzle flashes all around them. In the firelight of the burning buildings, shadows dance and twist. It's like being stalked by an army of black cats. Bible them too and opens fire... - He fires several long bursts to keep the Germans' heads down... I'm almost out! Me too! got two boxes left! Gordo, gimme one. Gordo passes up the 250 round ammo box. Wardaddy opens it, gets the belt ready for Bible. Then Wardaddy grabs several smoke grenades... We got ammo outside. I'm gonna drop some smokes. Gordo, you pop your hatch and lay down some cover fire. Bible and Machine, rip off what you got left. Wardaddy throws open his hatch - Pulls the smoke grenade pins, tosses them in a ring around the tank... Okay. I'm going! Hit it! Wardaddy climbs up out of his hatch... The smoke grenades gush torrents of dense yellow smoke. Gordo opens his hatch - Fires his Tommy-gun at anywhere he thinks a German is hiding... Next to him, the muzzle of Norman's machine gun spits fire lead and tracers into the night... Wardaddy scrambles over the turning turret. To the rack of .30 Cal ammo boxes. Gordo firing and reloading his Tommy gun... - Bible fires the last of his ammo. He climbs up through Wardaddy's hatch and grabs the grips of the big .50 heavy machine gun and lets it rip... - He's chopping down a row of trees where a cluster of Troopers fires at the Fury. It is a scene of inexpressibly wicked beauty - The hot orange light of the blazing buildings. Bright white and pink tracers slash the air. Bullets spark against tank steel. Dead and dying Troops in a haze of psychedelic yellow smoke. Running shadows. The sharp bright of German hand grenades. And the noise! At the center of it all - Wardaddy pulls several boxes of ammo from the turret's external racks and pitches them into the open hatch... He - emerges from the wall of yellow smoke - Charging and firing his machine gun... Wardaddy pulls the .45 from his shoulder holster... - Wardaddy is hit in the arm. Wardaddy aims, fires back... Dropping the bastard. Wardaddy grabs Bible's shoulder - Banging away with the .50 Cal - Shouts in his ear... Get in! Get inside! Bible dives through the hatch. With bullets hitting all around. Wardaddy climbs inside the Fury. Gordo empties his magazine - - Drops inside the tank. the hatch shut behind him. The yellow smoke is clearing -- Several run Bible reloads his coax gun. Wardaddy passes boxes of ammo to Gordo as Norman loads a fresh belt into his gun. Wardaddy back at his periscope looking for targets. We got eight boxes of ammo. For per gun. Make it last. You're hit. Wardaddy looks at his arm and shrugs. So are you. That's when Bible realizes blood is running down his neck. His scalp got nicked with a bullet. Gordo pulls the pin out of a grenade. Quickly opens his hatch and tosses it outside. Norman concentrates on his periscope, walking his tracers onto the darting shadows outside - Gordo sees something... Ten O'clock. Thirty yards. Squirt those guys. Norman fires off a long burst. The last of the belt. He cracks open another box and reloads. Hurry up. think they wanna kill us. think you're right. How long can we keep this up? Not long. Wardaddy hobnail boots on top of the tank - He pulls his .45 And opens his hatch. An is right there! -- He kicks Wardaddy's gun hand, the .45 Drops to the turret basket floor. Wardaddy reaches up and grabs the Trooper's legs, pulls him down into the tank. Wardaddy pulls his knife... The German soldier headbutts Wardaddy with his helmet splitting his nose. Wardaddy is not thwarted. He stabs the man in the chest. Bible freaking out. Oh dear God! It's alright. It's alright. got him. Gimme a hand. Wardaddy and Bible hoist the dying German and shove him out of the tank through Wardaddy's hatch. They're getting cocky. Wardaddy is in pain. Blood soaking his sleeve. You're no good leaking oil everywhere. So patch me up. Gordo, get up here and work the thirty. Gordo slips into the turret. Reloads the .30 Cal and starts shooting targets. - Still shooting. Empty brass is up to his ankles. Bible cuts open Wardaddy's sleeve. Pours sulfa powder on the gunshot wound and bandages it. As Bible tends his wound... If a man loves the world, the love of the Father ain't in him. For all in the world, lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father. But of the world. The world and its desires pass away. But he who does God's will lives forever. Off bible's quizzical look... once had a long spell with nothing but the good book and my conscience. With his arm patched up, Wardaddy recovers his .45 Pistol. Bible turns to Gordo. got it. Gordo has a worried look... Brother it's the last belt. Bible replaces Gordo at the gunner's position. Wardaddy is mulling their options. Bible turning the turret. Firing the coax with its footswitch. - As the last few rounds feed through his gun... I'm out! need another can. - That's when Bible runs dry... She's done. That's it then. There ain't more. Worried looks are traded... Don't shit your panties. We still got hand weapons and the fifty. Wardaddy opens his hatch and climbs out. Pass me a can of fifty. Bible hands up a box of ammo. Wardaddy reloads the .50 Cal. He squints into the shadows. a and fires... - The man bursts like a water balloon. Bible opens the Gunner's hatch and joins Wardaddy with his Tommy gun. Then Gordo and Norman open their hatches, submachine guns ready... It's deathly quiet. Just the crackling of the burning buildings. The moaning of the wounded Germans. ...where are they..? Everywhere. - the big kind that sounds like an evil chainsaw. It sprays bullets all over the Fury - Gordo pulls the pin on a grenade, cocks his arm to throw it... - Gordo is hit through the chest and drops the grenade inside the tank. Grenade! Wardaddy swings the big .50 on the German - His tracers find the source of the German tracers. The German fire stops. Gordo is fatally wounded and bleeding out - He fumbles for the grenade. Norman stares at him from across the transmission. He's fucked - The grenade will kill them both! Gordo smiles at Norman - Then with dying strength he holds the grenade tight to his chest... - Gordo's body absorbs the blast, saving Norman. - He's just sick. Terrified and horrified - And wildly grateful of Gordo's final act. The crew is down to three men. And a couple hundred Troopers still lurk outside in the dark... Norman! Keep shooting, son! Norman grits his teeth. Loads a fresh mag in his Greasegun... Norman pops up and fires a long burst into the ditch alongside the tank... Bible's Tommy gun jams - He fights to clear the malfunction. No dice. He tosses away the weapon. He jumps down from the tank and grabs a German assault rifle. He pulls magazines from the pouches of dead troopers. supposedly dead jumps to his feet and rushes him! - Bible grabs the assault rifle by the barrel and swings with all his might... - He catches the Trooper in the face with the buttstock - Teeth go flying. Bible flips the gun around and squeezes the trigger. - Finishing the job. Bible scrambles back to the Fury. Several German smoke grenades are tossed at the Fury. They gush dense white smoke - Smoke washes over the tank - Wardaddy, Norman, Bible can't see a thing. Get ready. They're gonna make a move. Wardaddy pulls a pin on a grenade. His instincts tell him where to throw it... - The grenade explodes - Followed by the of the soldiers it maimed... You motherfuckers! We're going to skin you alive! Your mother's in here. She can't talk now. Her mouth's full. I'll cut off your fingertips and make you eat the,! Shut up and send me more pigs to kill! Suddenly dozens of German weapons open up simultaneously. It is an unbelievable volume of fire. Wardaddy fires back blindly into the smoke... - He runs out of ammo... Bible! Ammo! Bible drops into the turret and grabs a box of ammo off the rack. He climbs up and hands it to Wardaddy. - Bible is hit in the head and instantly killed. He clatters back into the tank. Now it's just Norman and Wardaddy. - Helplessly cowering for his life as bullets ricochet all around him... - Wardaddy is hit twice... Button up! Wardaddy drops inside the tank and closes the hatch. Norman closes his hatch. The bullets striking the tank sound like gravel hitting sheet metal. Wardaddy holds Bible. He has a massive head wound. Wardaddy is devastated. He gently wipes the blood from Bible's face. I'm sorry, Boyd. did my best. Norman watching this - The Troopers are going to finish them off at any moment. Norman Wardaddy is bleeding heavily from his gunshot wounds... You're wounded. Wardaddy notices his two new bullet holes for the first time. Sure am. Sergeant Collier? My name's Don. Sorry. Don? Yeah kid? I'm scared. I'm scared too. Wardaddy lights a cigarette. Finds his bottle of Cognac and takes a belt. Offers Norman the bottle, it's covered with blood. Norman wipes the bottle. He takes a sip. Wardaddy is fading fast. Norman will soon be alone... want to surrender. Please don't. They'll hurt you real bad. And kill you real bad. Wardaddy takes a drag on his cigarette. The hatch above him is opening. With casual ease, Wardaddy pulls his .45 - Aims up at the hatch. - He empties the pistol and the hatch drops shut. He ejects the mag. Moving slow from blood loss. The gun slick in his hands. He pats his pockets looking for a fresh mag... The hatch opens - Smoking, deadly. Wardaddy looks at Norman who is frozen with fear... Go. Norman snaps into action. He dives into the driver's seat, pushing Gordo's body aside - He opens the and dives through... Norman is under the tank. Without a weapon! - The grenades explode inside the tank. With that Norman knows Wardaddy is no more. Norman is all alone. Around him he hears angry cursing Norman crawls into the crater made by the land mine that broke the track. He makes himself as small as possible, pulls dirt in over himself. Burying himself... Troopers everywhere. Their medics attend to their wounded. They swarm over the Fury. Open her hatches. Aim their weapons inside and... - Make sure all the occupants are dead. looks beneath the tank with a flashlight. Norman, nearly entirely buried, follows the path of the light beam with his one exposed eye... The light plays across the undercarriage. Norman's feels excruciating loud. Blood pounding in his ears. Let's go! We're behind schedule! Move it! Hurry up! Let's move! The Young Trooper turns off the lights. He stands and walks away. Iron boot heels crunching the road... Norman thanks his higher power. He may just survive this thing. Then the boots stop. And return... Norman tries to be one with the roadbed. The Trooper lays down - - Shines the light directly in Norman's face. He's been discovered. - Now we see his face. He's a kid, younger than Norman. boy in uniform. He looks Norman in the eye. Norman slowly lifts his hands in surrender. His oil and blood soaked fingers emerging from the dirt and dust. The Young Trooper smiles weakly - won't hurt you." Then turns off the light and walks away. Norman sags with anxious relief. Shrill as the Sergeants get their squads on the march again. Jackboots the road as the formation continues down the road. The Troops are marching away in the distance. On a pointless and doomed mission against overwhelming Allied Armies steamrolling across Germany. Now it's quiet. Dead quiet. Norman, buried in his hole, finally succumbs to exhaustion. His eyes close. He passes out curled in his womb of dirt. Distant The escape hatch slowly opens. It's Norman - He slips inside the Fury. He forces his way past Gordo's body. Then covers Gordo with a jacket. He moves to Coon-Ass and covers him. Then Bible, he gently crosses his arms over his chest. There's Wardaddy. Sitting there. The grenades have made a mess of him. Norman takes off his jacket and covers him up. He pauses. Gently picks up Wardaddy's big calloused hang. He looks at his palm. Traces the lines a moment. As if to confirm something he already knew. Then he sets it down. Norman finds Wardaddy's knife on the floor of the turret basket. He picks up the knife and runs his thumb along all the notches. Norman something... Movement outside the tank. And He freezes. Unsure what to do. This kid is traumatized, he's in no condition to fight Nazis... Alone and scared. Norman sits there trembling, holding Wardaddy's knife for protection... The hatch opens - It's a An American soldier. - One we recognize - The Huge Dirty Soldier from Baker Company - He looks at Norman with war weary eyes. Wipes his nose on his sleeve and shouts to his buddies. One's alive! The Fury is shot to hell, burnt and scarred. Baker Company soldiers are gathered around her. Norman is pulled out of the hatch and laid onto a stretcher. Two carry Norman to a waiting Half-Track. You're a hero. You know that? Norman doesn't know what that means. Or really care. It is clear from the churning angst in his eyes he will never, ever be the same. - Until we look straight down on the crossroads and see the true scope of the fight, of the carnage... Laid out in a ring around the tank for fifty yards are a couple hundred dead Troopers... Norman is loaded into the Half-Track. It slowly drives away. Fury : David Ayer :