written by John August This script is copyright © 1998 John August light rain and crickets Somewhere in the night, is blaring, but here it's only a whisper with a beat. Water trickles out of a jagged pipe. Splashing up mud, the riverlet weaves through hamburger wrappers and sunbleached beer cans, spent condoms and an old Spin magazine. The tiny stream ripples past glass and trash and the body of a woman. Face up, breathing. Dead grass caught in her braids. Her name is She's eighteen and bleeding. Bleeding a lot. She tries to push herself up, but the dirt around her crumbles. Her legs are useless. Despite it all, there's a smile of perverse joy to her face, like she's just remembered the punchline to a favorite joke. You know what like best about Christmas? The surprises. Pitch black. We hear an and It's like, you get this box, and you're sure you know what's in it. cigarette lighter flares. We're in the trunk of a car with (22), a skinny Brit with surfer hair. He looks around, realizes where he is. Panicked, he starts and You shake it, you weigh it, and you're totally convinced you have it pegged. No doubt in your mind. The lighter goes out. It's black again. This script is copyright © 1998 John August 8/26/98 Revisions We keep tight on (19) as she talks to an unseen guest. Christmas lights blink behind her. (CONT'd) But then you open it up, and it's something completely different. Bing! Wow! Bang! Surprise! mean, it's like you and me here. She takes a sip of coffee, smiles. She has a bewitching smile. I'm not saying this is anything it's not. But c'mon. This time yesterday, who'dda thunk it? Part One: Christmas plays. baby cash drawer slides shut. On the far side of the checkout stand, a counts food stamps. Her eyes are sunken, black. She's got a screaming on her arm and two rambunctious in the cart. They're wearing pajamas and raincoats. It's five a.m. and the store is almost empty. Containers of frozen orange juice spin endlessly on the conveyor belt. Ronna Martin -- the girl in the ditch -- is bagging groceries. Paper or plastic? She wears a green apron with a red "Yule Save More" button. 8/26/98 Revisions Paper or plastic? She's been working for fourteen hours, and it shows. Her intonation doesn't change at all. Paper or plastic? Both. Finally satisfied she has all her stamps, the Woman starts looking through the receipt. In the cart, the boys knock gum from the stand. You didn't double my coupons. They're at the bottom. In red. Where it says, double coupons. She finishes one bag and starts another. The Woman is watching her carefully. You can't do that. You can't put bleach in the same bag as food. It's poison. Ronna fishes out the bleach and makes a big show of wrapping it in a plastic bag. Don't think you're something you're not. used to have your job. Ronna puts the bag in the cart. Looks her dead in the eye. Look how far it got you. Ronna pulls off her apron as she heads for the back. In the the Stringy Haired Woman is bitching to an overweight 8/26/98 Revisions Dark and dusty, packed floor to ceiling with crates and palettes. Offscreen, a plays on Ronna comes around the corner, a thundercloud of anger and frustration. She passes by (19) and the British (21) at the phone, sorting through a crumpled list. Simon's eyes track Ronna as she passes. (low) Don't. Why not? She's been on for fourteen hours. At her locker, Ronna misdials the combination. Frustrated, she the locker, then re-dials. Simon approaches Ronna gingerly. Claire gives up on him, setting to work opening a box of expired cookies. Ronna? No. She trades her apron for her coat. haven't asked you yet. Answer's still no. She slams her locker. She crosses to the time clock. Are you menstrual? Pre-menstrual, post- menstrual? 8/26/98 Revisions One of the three. (punches out) Okay, Simon. In case you haven't heard the buzz, the scoop, the word on the street, I'm getting evicted. Tomorrow. So pardon me if I'm not in a holly-jolly mood right now. Claire looks over, looks away. Ronna heads for the door leading outside. Ronna, they wouldn't evict you at Christmas. You'd be ho-ho-homeless. He follows her out the door. Ronna forges ahead, ignoring him. Is that why all the overtime? How much do you owe? Three eighty. That's nothing. More than got. I'll give you twenty right now for a blowjob. She stops, turns on him. Her look could freeze lava. Handjob? beat. The start of a smile. Simon's just pushing her buttons. Ronna, do you want my shift? Serious? * 8/26/98 Revisions haven't punched in yet. * She only half-believes him. Simon's not prone to benevolence. Look, my best mates are going to Las Vegas * this weekend. I've never been -- I'm told it's incredible. If you took my shift, could go with them. Everybody wins. (beat; she's not sold) Cash up front. He peels off three twenties from his clip. She looks at the money, thinking. Finally, she takes it. Deal. Beyond exhausted, she starts walking back to the store. After a beat... Ronna? Are you certain couldn't have a blowjob? Without turning back, she flips him off. 8/26/98 Revisions An takes a container of orange juice from * the refrigerator case. Suddenly, reaches out through the case, grabbing it away. The woman * gasps. Available cashier to the front. * Customers waiting. * (17) pulls his arm back through with the orange juice. * He's on break with Ronna and Claire. * Repeat, cashier to the front. * All eyes look up to the voice of God. One of us has to go. Dead celebrities? * Loser goes up. Steve McQueen. * She rips open a case of Snapple, taking one. * Mannie is checking out a small printed rave invite. In a flash of inspiration... Michael Landon. Lucille Ball. 8/26/98 Revisions We with a rapid, snooze-you-lose pace. Burt Lancaster. (to Mannie, re: invite) Can you drive? If you don't mind The Beast. love The Beast. Lane Staley. (off reaction) Alice in Chains. He's not dead yet. It's true. (substituting) Lewis Carroll. Alice in Wonderland. Claire takes the invite from Mannie. Carole Lombard. Lee Marvin. Don't say Molly Ringwald. Martha Raye. Nice. Robert Mitchum. Shit! MMMMMMMMalcolm 8/26/98 Revisions Claire just stands there confused, mouthing Mannie scoops a fingerful of whipped cream from a tub. You can't say Malcolm He's famous, he's dead. That's like a rule or something. Nothing starts with He puts the tub back on the shelf. That's not my problem. (to Claire) You can challenge. Okay, challenge. Give me one dead celebrity that starts with This is bullshit. am not working the * fucking register. She's winning no sympathy. Mannie starts to audibly the countdown. Ronna shoots him a withering look. X...X...There is one. know thought of one before. jug of milk suddenly shifts to the side, revealing the bulbous face of the Manager, looking through from the store side. Break was over four minutes ago. Who's up front? Claire looks at Mannie. Mannie looks at Ronna. Resigned to martyrdom... am. 8/26/98 Revisions Ronna rips off a receipt, handing it to a Starts scanning someone else's groceries. Mannie is digging out returns from under Ronna's checkstand. He suddenly looks up. Xerxes. What? Xerxes. Some dead pharaoh guy. Starts with That wasn't it. never heard of fucking "Xerxes." Pharaoh coulda saved your ass. Mannie pushes his cart down to the next checkstand. There's an opera about him. Ronna looks up at the customer, a handsome college guy He's cute in that fresh-scrubbed, Midwestern way. Xerxes. took music appreciation twice. Whatever. Adam's friend is with him in line, on a cellular phone. Ronna hits total. $25.12. Adam hands her a credit card. She swipes it through the machine and starts bagging their groceries. Does a British guy still work here? He went to Vegas for the weekend. 8/26/98 Revisions glance between Adam and Zack, hard to read why. Zack nods for Adam to go ahead. Betcha wonder why we're buying all this orange juice. Scurvy? She's not going to rise to the bait. Zack looks over at Adam, then to Ronna. Say... (checks nametag) Ronna. You don't know where we could get something to go with this orange juice, do you? Doughnuts, aisle four. But then you get the weird taste in your mouth. was thinking something a little more euphoric. The British guy usually hooks us up. She stops bagging. Looks at Adam. At Zack. How much? Twenty at twenty. You're overpaying. We're desperate. bunch of us are going to this party tonight, this warehouse thing... He pulls out a postcard-sized invite. Bright colors, slick printing... Mary Xmas Supafest. You're going? 8/26/98 Revisions And we had planned this kinda pre-party. Only there's 20 of us, it's like all or nothing. Switterman walks down the end of the aisle, headed for the manager's desk. (low) friend was supposed to get the stuff in Chicago, but now he's snowed in. So if you could help us out here... All three watch Switterman pass. It gives Ronna a beat to think. She hands Zack a post-it note and a pen. 8/26/98 Revisions Gimme a number. Let me see what can do. Kick ass. Adam smiles. It's a nice smile. Even Ronna notices. So do you want the o.j. or not? Absolutely. The Beast is Mannie's pride and joy, a late-70's Toyota held together with duct tape and prayer. It's outfitted for the season with Christmas lights lining the windshield and back window. Santa has replaced Jesus on the dashboard. Ronna climbs in the passenger door, counting a stack of 20's fresh from the Claire's in back. You know that Simon's in Vegas. don't need Simon. I'm going to Todd. Todd Who's Todd Gaines? Simon's dealer. Claire sits forward in the seat, suddenly worried. You can't do that, can you? mean, go around Simon. She looks at Mannie. He shrugs, unsure. Ok, listen up. If Simon were here -- which he's not -- he would charge fifteen, when know he gets it for ten. 8/26/98 Revisions (cont'd) Times twenty hits, that's a hundred bucks I'd be pissing out my dick. But it's like an evolutionary leap. You're moving up the drug food chain. Without permission. 8/26/98 Revisions Ronna, you shouldn't do this. Ronna pockets the cash. Mannie's about to say something when she stops him. Both of you chill the fuck out. It's just once. When Simon gets back, we can still overpay for quarters if it makes you feel all warm and happy. But this is my deal, so just sit back and watch. Mannie and Claire remain unconvinced. Ronna reaches for the keys, the ignition even though Mannie's driving. The purrs. (CONT'd) Besides, Todd likes me. This won't be any problem. sounds. Ronna stands by the intercom of a two-story walkup in Hollywood. Waiting, she looks back to the street, where The Beast sits idle at the curb. Speak! Todd! It's Ronna Martin. You know me through Simon. long pause. Yeah? Can come up? Another long pause. Ronna looks back at The Beast, embarrassed. Finally the door and a latch open. Stairs lead up. She motions back "five minutes" to The Beast. 8/26/98 Revisions Three out of four lights are burned out in the hallway. few feet ahead of Ronna, a door stands partly ajar. weird red-and-green light spills out through the crack, along with an Alice in Chains Ronna pushes the door open from the hallway. Todd? Shades drawn, the room is completely insulated from reality. The light bulbs have been markered over, casting eerie pools of red and green light. Broken CD's dangle off a tiny Christmas tree by the stereo. Slacker seasonalism. Don't let the cat out. Ronna closes the door behind her. emerges from the darkened bedroom, tying the string on a pair of sweat pants. That's all he's wearing. didn't wake you up, did Nah. He settles into an overstuffed couch and lights a Marlboro. Adjusts himself in the crotch. Motions for her to take a chair. She's more nervous than she wants to let on. thought you were still buying quarters off Simon. Least what Simon pretends are quarters. keep him honest. At that level you're supposed to pinch. It's the economics of it. 8/26/98 Revisions with a ballerina's body comes out of the bedroom. She tucks an unrealistically large breast down into her tight top. You leaving? She leans over the back of the sofa for quick, tonguey kiss. In a sneak attack, she shoves a Santa's hat down to his ears. He bats the white pom out of his eyes. Be good. The woman is out the door without a word. Gaines looks back over at Ronna, not the least bit self-conscious about the hat. take it this is not a social call. need a favor. favor? Wow. didn't know we were such good friends, Ronna. Because if we were, you would know give head before give favors. don't even give my best friends head, so the chance of your getting a favor right now are pretty fucking slim. (beat) You might try just telling me what you want to buy. Twenty hits of ecstacy. He takes a deep drag on the cigarette, looking at her. Blows the smoke out. He picks up a remote control. Aims it at the stereo. The volume meter, climbing fast. Out of the green, into the red. The is deafening. On top of Ronna, face in her ear. His hand wraps around her head, holding her tight. We can't what he's saying. Ronna's eyes betray her fear. 8/26/98 Revisions He backs off. She looks confused. He nods. Do it. The still she stands and slowly unbuttons her shirt. Takes it off -- very self-consciously. Pulls her t- shirt off over her head. Just her bra underneath. He motions for her to turn around. She does, then back. Her hands are shaking. She holds them together. Gaines aims the remote at the stereo. The retreats. You come here out of the blue asking for twenty hits. Just so happens twenty is the magic number where intent to sell becomes trafficking. Todd, would never fuck you like that. How would you fuck me? Would you strap it on? He climbs over the sofa to a dresser. In a drawer, he digs down through a pile of socks to find a wide-mouthed bottle. And an empty Tylenol bottle. Blows out the dust. What's the occasion? There's this big Christmas party thing. Warehouse, you know. bunch of us are doing sort of a pre-party thing. Friends of yours. You're not going to go and try to sell this on me, are you? No. You're not dealing. Swear to God. He transfers pills from the big bottle to the Tylenol bottle. 8/26/98 Revisions This is the real thing. Pharmaceutical grade, not that crunchy herbal rave shit. Don't let anyone double dose or you'll be frying eggs off `em in the emergency room. One hit per headbanger. Understood. He snaps the cap on tight. Twenty at fifteen is 300. Fifteen? was thinking more like ten. You already did strap it on. It's just that know you charge Simon ten. Inflation's a bitch. He offers it to Ronna, who doesn't reach out for it. Here's the deal. There's 20 of us. need all of this. But only have two hundred. mean, that's all have. Gaines undoes the cap of the Tylenol bottle, starts pouring the pills back out. No, hear me out. This two-hundred is like a downpayment. You give me the stuff, get the extra hundred from them, then come right back and pay you. See, that would be doing you a favor, and you know how feel about favors. could leave something with you. Collateral. He gives her a quick look over. 8/26/98 Revisions already got a fucking Swatch. need something know you'll come back for. Ronna looks at the Tylenol bottle in his hands. Thinking... Ronna kneels down beside the passenger window. Knocks on the glass. Claire rolls down the window. spills out. Claire, could you come up with me for a sec? The release stops as Ronna pulls open the door to the stairs. Claire just stands there, disbelieving, making no motion to go in. Forty-five minutes. Hour, tops. You just have to sit there. Hello! He's a drug dealer. Jesus, Claire. Don't get 818 on me here. How much shit have done for you? This is nothing. No. No! You're making me an accessory. Claire. That bracelet of mine you're wearing is an accessory. You are just some chick who's sitting in an apartment. That's it. It's not just the matter at hand, but years of minor adjustment and one-upsmanship. Ronna finally drops the bravado. Okay, no bullshit. need this. don't get this money, get evicted. My ass is out the street. You could... 8/26/98 Revisions (stopping her) No, Claire. don't have anyone else to go to. am coming to you and am asking for your help. Please. Help me. beat. Forty-five minutes. That's like eight o'clock. We'll be back by eight, promise. Ronna holds the door as Claire reluctantly steps inside. The clock on the dashboard reads 8:04. (v.o.) Is this it? Are you sure? running, The Beast is parked along a residential street in Venice. In the driver's seat, Mannie looks for an address. Six-forty-four. Jesus, next time ask for directions. He kills the engine. Ronna does a quick face-check in the rear view mirror. She's out the door, moving a hundred miles an hour. Ronna! She looks back in. Mannie shakes the Tylenol bottle she forgot. Tosses them to her. You're a pro. I'm a top-seeded amateur. 8/26/98 Revisions She pockets the bottle. the door. Mannie tracks her as she circles the car. And I'm a very happy man. In his palm, two tablets. He works up a good gob of spit, then swallows them both. They're bitter as hell. beefy guy named reaches out a hand. Damn good to meet you, Rhonda. Ronna. Ronna. When heard Philly got snowed in, thought we were fucked for sure. Glad we found you. Her goes off, a shrill She quiets it, checks the number. Burke smiles. Work work work. Friday must be a busy night. That was just a friend. Only now do we to see Adam and Zack standing nearby, trying to look cool. Their house is spartan even by frat-boy standards, just goodwill furniture and as-is Ikea. Hey. What can get you to drink? Some of that orange juice would be great. Burke does a hepcat swing through the kitchen door, leaving Ronna alone with Adam and Zack. So this party tonight sounds like it's gonna be huge. 8/26/98 Revisions Massive. That would be a synonym for huge. Just backing you up. And appreciate that. 8/26/98 Revisions Ronna hun, we are fresh out of o.j... Adam looks at Zack. Ronna catches it. (back thru door) Cerveza? He hands her a beer. (to Burke) Oh yeah. Hey. We bought a whole bunch of orange juice. It's in the car. watching them with a lion tamer's concentration. Burke looks back over at her. Now, Zack tells me you got 20 at 20, is that right? (suddenly) You got a bathroom? Down the hall on the right. Let me show you... He moves at Ronna strangely. It freaks her out. Maybe we could do this first. Burke shoots Adam a look. Ronna's already headed down the hall. They wait silently until Ronna's out of earshot. We said Chicago, you said Philadelphia. In black-and-white we're looking down on wide-angle view of the entire room -- a surveillance camera. We can see the reflection of someone watching. 8/26/98 Revisions Maybe she didn't notice. 8/26/98 Revisions Just wait here. Keep it calm. Burke walks off camera, headed for the hall. Zack hangs his head. Adam looks up at the camera. Ronna locks the door. She leans back against the frame, panicking. She turns on both faucets. She checks the window. Nailed shut. She looks at herself in the spotless mirror. You're fine. You're fine. Burke leans up against the outside of the door, listening. She pulls the Tylenol bottle out of her pocket. She looks down at the toilet. Hesitating, until... on the door. Everything all right in there? Ronna's heart is in her throat. The handle, rocking back and forth, locked. Fine. She struggles with the cap. Child safety. 8/26/98 Revisions It finally open. few pills scatter on the carpet. She dumps the contents into the toilet. Burke hears it. Freaks out. He rifles through the keys on his belt. Ronna's on all fours, searching for spilled pills. She tosses them into the swirling water. The hole in the center of the door knob. thin allen wrench slips in. Burke forces the door open to reveal standing with her beer, cool as an Eskimo. All yours. She pushes past him into the hall. Ronna is headed for the front door. Following behind her, Burke waves at Adam -- Adam steps in her way. Ronna, hun, do we got a deal here or not? (turns, backing away) No. No, see we don't. That's what came here to tell you. couldn't get anything. She bumps back into Adam at the door. Burke is closing in. 8/26/98 Revisions C'mon, resourceful girl like you? don't believe it. It's true. just want to make a deal here, Ronna. Can we make a deal? Who the fuck are you? Monty Hall? Zack chokes a laugh. Burke stares right through her. Ronna swigs her beer like a trucker. Did you know I'm only 17? probably shouldn't be drinking this beer, should Being so underage and all. The men just stand there, watching. Burke, dumbstruck. He nods at Adam. Adam steps away from the door. Ronna backs her way out the door, never taking her eyes off them. The door Adam and Zack await the fury. Burke looks back to the hallway. white guy with dreadlocks comes out of a locked door. His name is Man, don't know what happened, it's like the machine just ate the tape. He cracks a videotape against the doorframe, pulling out the innards. 8/26/98 Revisions (v.o.) Why would they go after you? The car is parked on the side of another residential street. think it was Simon they were after. He deals all the time out of the store. mean, he makes change out of the fucking register. They didn't know who was dealing, just that it was someone at the store? They were fishing. bit. Ronna's goes off with a shrill She checks the number. It's Claire. She paged me while was in there. We go back to Todd. Tell him they didn't show up, whatever. And then just swap the pills for Claire. We can't. Why not? They're gone. flushed them. Oh shit. Think of something. need a hundred bucks or 20 hits of long silent beat as both put on their thinking caps. Mannie tries to beat down a smile that curls the edges of his lips. He clenches his jaw, trying to keep it in. 8/26/98 Revisions What?! She turns his chin to hold his eyes to the light. They're wild and dilated. And his smile resurfaces despite his best efforts. You took one, didn't you? Fuck you, Mannie! How could you do this to me? need you now. He sits quietly, a scolded dog. Drive. Where? Just drive. have an idea. sign over the entrance reads "Yule Save More." Christmas blares "Jingle Bell Rock" overhead. The automatic doors slide open to reveal Ronna and Mannie, who split up. We follow Ronna, who is now wearing Mannie's black trench coat. The store is almost empty, with beginning to unload palettes. Ronna turns down an aisle marked "Soap/Shampoo/Drugs." Mannie scans his hand on a register, watching the laser on his fingers, listening to it He smiles broadly at an idle who doesn't even look up. He then ducks down behind the counter. spins away. He presses the "| " button, then cranks the volume dial all the way up. The opening of a Latinized Christmas classic through the system. 8/26/98 Revisions The Register Woman looks up. Two look up. looks up, confused, but proceeds to push her cart around the end of the row. Ronna looks both ways. She's alone. She starts grabbing boxes off the shelf and shoving them into the pockets of Mannie's coat. Cold medicine. Allergy medicine. Every pill she can find. comes by behind her, heading for the front. She tries to duck away, but he's too steamed to even notice her. Ronna does a quick check to see if she got everything. Hurrying down the aisle, she swipes a bottle of Evian. The two stockboys give a wide-eyed, Spielberg stare... We to the next aisle, where the Coupon Woman is staring at the same thing... We again to Ronna at the end of her aisle. She just now sees it... Mannie. He sticks his hand out. the Register Woman. She sticks her hand out. Their palms meet. Their hips come together. And they dance. What starts as a tango, spirals into a SEARCH-y routine of dips, spins and Arthur Murray nightmares. Torville and Dean on linoleum. 8/26/98 Revisions The stockboys watch, horrified but transfixed. The Coupon Woman taps her shoe against the wheel of her cart. dancing his heart out. His face is red and dripping sweat. He's too out of it to notice. a swirling light. The is stacked up on itself, overlapping and bizarre. For just a moment, horrifying. he stops mid-twirl. Holding himself against a magazine rack. Ronna takes him by the shoulder. Ronna leans into a fish-eye swirl. The grows louder, continuing as we Behind the wheel, Ronna's ripping open boxes of medication. Cracking open jars, she spills the tablets out on her hand. Were they round or oval? (recovering) Round. White. Like aspirin. Like baby aspirin. She digs through the pockets of the coat, seeing what else she grabbed. Her goes off. She hits it to make it stop. She pops an allergy pill out of its blister pack. Compares it to another pill, almost the same. (holding them up) or 8/26/98 Revisions You're sure? wasn't really looking. Making a decision, Ronna starts popping the rest of the pills out of the blister pack, dumping them into the Tylenol bottle. Her goes off again. Stop fucking paging me, Claire! Mannie nurses the Evian bottle. rings. Gaines picks up the receiver, clicking the remote to mute the player. He's still shirtless and wearing the Santa Claus hat. (on phone) Speak!...Just licking my dick, whazzup with you?...Yeah...The Crazy Horse, you'll have to look it up...I don't know what I'm up to. (to Claire) Where's this party at? Claire is sitting in the corner, holding herself very still. She digs a postcard-ish invite out of her purse. He snaps his fingers. She hands it over. (on phone) It's called "Mary Xmas." Mary like a chick...Like her name is Mary, not like you marry her. You fucking moron...I dunno, some warehouse shit. (to Claire) Is this gonna be cool? Yeah, guess. 8/26/98 Revisions (on phone) My friend Claire here says it's going to be a kick-ass-fucking-time...What, you know her? (to Claire) It's your buddy Simon. He's in Vegas. know. She knows...Hell, dunno... (looks at Claire) Maybe...Yeah, well save a load for me big boy...Whatever. He hangs up. The player is still muted. The silence is vast. Gaines scratches an armpit. Checks his watch. Claire looks away. What do you want for Christmas, Claire? don't know. Do you want to get laid? No. No, you don't wanna get laid or no, you do, but you don't want to get laid with me? You can't answer that. mean, it's like... Either way you're fucked. Where are they, Claire? They'll be here. They'll be here. Huh. 8/26/98 Revisions He gestures like he's going to click on the player, but instead points it at her. Are you a virgin? What? C'mon, Claire. Answer the question. Answer the question, Claire. She doesn't say anything. Gaines laughs his ass off. Breakfast Club. get it. Look at me. want to show you something. She looks back over at him. He slowly undoes the drawstring to his sweat pants. Starts to reach inside. Claire watches, revolted and disbelieving. beat. I'm kidding! His hand reaches between the cushions of the couch, where he pulls out a 9mm handgun. I'm not kidding. Where the fuck are they, Claire? The gun pointed at her, Claire is losing her shit. Her face squeezes tight, like her head's being sucked through a tiny hole. Just when she's about to pop... The sounds. Saved by the bell. Gaines pushes the button on the intercom. Speak! It's Ronna! Smiling, Gaines hits the button. Claire collects her wits. 8/26/98 Revisions Ronna looks back to Mannie. Don't say anything. And try not to look so stoned. He nods, wiping a finger across his forehead to squeegee off the sweat. Gaines sits pensively on the edge of the couch, then smiles warmly. That's no problem. These things happen, understand that. Claire smiles, relieved. Mannie stands behind Ronna, his gaze carefully fixed on the wall. (CONT'd) Let me just fill out a return slip here, and I'll have the manager give you a refund. Todd, I'm trying to explain what happened. They had already gotten stuff from somewhere else. It was just a case of miscommunication, thought... Ronna's fades to nothing as we on Mannie. lays down on a table in front of him, staring at him. can hear your thoughts. Mannie squints, looks around. He and the cat are alone in the room. Xiang Kai-Shek. Famous Chinese ruler guy. Starts with 8/26/98 Revisions Mannie smiles. No. Chiang Kai-Shek. The cat curls itself. You're going to die. Mannie snaps back, eyes panicked. It's a few minutes later. Everyone's in different places, different moods. Mannie hasn't moved at all. (handing back cash) I'm keeping fifty. Call it interest. That's fine. Todd, I'm really sorry about all this. Ronna steers Mannie towards the door, trying to keep his back to Todd. But at the last moment... Hey Ronna. beat. Todd shakes the pill bottle. just gave you a favor. (a smile) And here thought you just gave me head. They trade a look as she exits. Gaines picks up the cat, gives it a scratch. Silly humans. Mannie lies on the roof of The Beast, arms spread wide, cigarette in his fingers. Ronna and Claire stare at each other, a competition, neither wanting to exhale first. 8/26/98 Revisions Hands waving, Claire struggles to keep herself from laughing and choking. Finally she gives in, coughing up smoke and snot. Ronna blows out a cool ribbon of smoke. 8/26/98 Revisions She hands over a wreath of plastic holly. Pin me. She leans down to let Claire pin the holly in a crown around and through her hair. Okay, at the risk of sounding like. You know. Me. What are you going to do about getting evicted? You're still short, aren't you? Mannie's hand flops down to the window. Claire hands him the joint. From we see the floor is still littered with dozens of boxes of medicine. beat. She picks up a box. An idea forming, Ronna sits back up. Smiles. What? What? Ronna and Claire weave through the densely packed lot, where party in and around their cars, drinking and smoking. As they walk, Ronna pops allergy medicine out of a blister-foil pack. She tosses the box away. Scanning the lot, she points to a mini-van. Ronna knocks on the window. rolls it down, releasing a cloud of smoke. Ronna smiles. Hi. I'm Kelly, and this is Donna. We were wondering if you might want to hang out. 8/26/98 Revisions Ronna and Claire are packed in tight with three The guys are stoned, the girls uptight. They're all breaking curfew. think feel something. It's really smooth, isn't it? Donna's brother is a pharmacist. He got it for us. look from Claire -- why are dragging me into this? But she goes for it. Chip. His name is Chip. My brother. Is it like a wave, or is it like a zoom? It's like floating. Like, "Hey down there, how's the ground and shit." got it. Oh, fuck. Yeah, feel it. Is it really that cool? You gotta try it. Shit, I'll buy for you. He pulls out his wallet and hands Ronna a twenty. She gives the Anorexic Girl a tablet, who downs the pill with a swig of Diet Coke. And you know what makes it even better? If you smoke a lot of pot. mean a lot of it. Fila Guy nods, firing up the mini-bong again. 8/26/98 Revisions Mannie leans against a wall, pale and out of it, a nauseated smile on his face. (low) can't believe you are selling allergy medicine. We're out of that. We're down to chewable aspirin. comes up to them, money in hand. Hey. People are saying you have some really good stuff. Ronna takes the money, looks him over. Show me your tits. beat. He pulls up his shirt to show his skinny white chest. Deeming him worthy, Ronna hands him a pill and sends him on his way. She adds the twenty to her stack. How much have you made? Four hundred. The opening of an industrial rise as we cut to: builds throughout. Standing at the dresser, Gaines cracks open Ronna's bottle. Pills spill out on a plate. He counts them, pushing them aside in groups with a card. Stops. Picks one up. Looks at it more closely... Pulls open a drawer full of socks. Digs out the wide-mouthed bottle. Shakes out a pill. 8/26/98 Revisions Flicks on a desk lamp. Looks at both pills in his hand, comparing... Fuck. He flips over the card on the dresser. Mary Xmas. The invite Claire gave him. With a sudden he the plate against the far wall. It The music and we're... grinding, sweating sea of humanity. In the mosh pit, and coked-up run in blind circles. stringy- haired crashes into who had her own groove going. She shoves him back into the wheel, a foot on his ass. Claire, behind her, something in her ear. We can't hear a thing. Ronna downs the rest of her drink, hands Claire the cup. That's not what Claire meant -- she's a little pissed -- but Ronna is oblivious. Both hands free, Ronna pushes her way deeper into the eye of the storm. She adjusts her holly crown. She's sky high and loving every minute of it. The line to get in is longer still, snaking down the wall. Fila Guy is talking to a friend in a shirt. This girl inside. She and her friend have it. Ecstasy? The real shit? Pharmaceutical grade. None of the crunchy herbal rave shit. Best twenty bucks you could spend. 8/26/98 Revisions We look past Fila Guy to see Todd Gaines, who's been listening. Seething. Sweating hard, Mannie is pressed back against a pole, shirt over his head. Two nose-ringed are drawing a Christmas tree on his chest and stomach with a fat magic marker. Looking over at the entrance, he watches some move past the And behind them, Mannie's drugged eyes go wide with panic. He hunches down. Gaines starts looking around the edge of the crowd. Mannie works his way into the mob. fire overhead. Ronna dances on, oblivious... Gaines circles, searching... Mannie fights his way through the outer ring of Through the crowd, we see Gaines looking in... Mannie grabs Ronna... She smiles, tries to kiss him... He in her ear. He has to repeat himself... She looks back over her shoulder... space in the crowd... She sees Gaines. He sees her. The Dead silence. Ronna and Gaines trade stares for what feels like an eternity, until suddenly... The back, harder than ever. Like a shot, Ronna and Mannie are out of there. Gaines plows through the crowd, coming after them. side door open, Ronna dragging Mannie by the wrist. They race down the alley. burly shouts after them: 8/26/98 Revisions (re: sign on door) The Bouncer is blindsided by Gaines, who charges after Ronna. Ronna pulls Mannie into a covered doorway, a niche set off from the alley. They hide back in the shadows as races past. Ronna kneels down to Mannie, who's hunched over his knees sweating and shaking. What's wrong? Mannie? She puts a hand on his sweating forehead. His cheeks. Jesus. You're burning up. can't feel my hands. Listen to me. We're going to find Claire and get out of here. Ronna half-carries Mannie down the alley. He's too heavy to lift, and too out of it to go much further. He collapses to his knees. She can't get him back up. Without warning, he We hear the on the asphalt. She props his head back against a dumpster. Wipes his face. Sweetheart. Mannie. I'm going to leave you here. I'm going to get the car and come back for you. She fishes the keys out of his pocket. Mannie grabs onto her arm, tight. 8/26/98 Revisions can't carry you! Mannie, just hide here. Just like a little mouse, okay? You're going to be fine. Ain't nobody leaving. She pushes his legs into the shadows. He's crying. In the distance, we hear the of the music. Keeping low, Ronna works her way down a row, coming to Mannie's car. She tries one key, then another. We to see Todd Gaines watching her from the hood of a nearby car. How's it going, Ronna? How are sales? Her heart skips a beat. She drops the keys. Todd, can explain. I'm not going to ask you to. He climbs off the car, approaching. The thing is, it's not like I'm in a highly ethical industry. But goddamn, Ronna. You fucked me over for 20 lousy hits. He pulls his gun from the back of his jeans. By instinct, she starts to move away. red Miata moves down the row behind Ronna. She looks to it for help, but it's already passed. It's not what it looks like. mean, it sort of is, but it's complicated. Not really. He cocks the gun. 8/26/98 Revisions know fucked up, but can make it up to you. Please, Todd. I'm the last fucking person you should be expecting a favor from. have the cash. have more than owe you. So now you're an entrepreneur. At the last moment, Ronna bolts. She ducks around the corner of a van, only to see... doing 20 in reverse. It brakes, but there's no time. It hits her hard. She flies up over the roof of the car, down on the soft top. Her limp body starts to slip down the windshield, but finally sticks. seeing the hit. it. Stunned. beat, then we hear the engine pulling back again. That shakes Ronna loose, letting her drop over the headlights in front. Rolling down the slope at the edge of the field, Ronna topples ass-first into a drainage ditch. Her body lands with a sickening stands where he is, gun still in hand, dumbfounded. He looks to the Miata. It suddenly takes off, kicking up dirt and grass. For a moment, all is quiet. Finally, Gaines tucks the gun into his jeans. One last look around, then he starts working his way back across the parking lot. Disappears. 8/26/98 Revisions We stay on Ronna's body as we the Miata suddenly pull away. Somewhere in the distance, the Mary Xmas Supafest is still but here it's only a with a beat. With a sudden Ronna moves. Turns herself over on her back. Each breath and She pulls the remainder of the holly crown out of her hair and tosses it aside. She tries to push herself up. Her legs won't move. Catching her breath, she looks to the top of the ditch, waiting for somebody to look in. No one does. Adjusting herself, she slides against a weathered magazine. Spin. Jane's Addiction on the cover. She collapses back, a new wave of pain. After a beat, she suddenly until gradually it becomes a She pushes her hair back, streaking blood across her face. Mannie!! There's no answer. The hurts. She won't do that again. Mannie, got it! remembered who the fuck it was! Perry Farrell's dead girlfriend. Xiola Blue. Fuck, knew there was one. sudden spasm of pain. She winces, sobbing. It passes. Don't you get it? win. She as she laughs, spitting out some blood. We rising higher until we slowly 8/26/98 Revisions Offscreen, a plays. Simon is on the phone, a well- worn employee list in his hands. No, no. Donde Miguel? * Claire leans against the wall beside him, skeptical but amused. She turns a box of cookies over in her hands, reading the ingredients. Jalisco? (to Claire) Where is Jalisco? Mexico. Fuck. Simon hangs up the phone without saying goodbye. He continues down the list. Simon, no one is going to take your shift. Ronna comes around the corner, zombie-tired. She heads to her locker. Simon watches her, an idea forming. Ronna, do you want my shift? Are you serious? haven't punched in yet. * She only half-believes him. 8/26/98 Revisions Look, my best mates are going to Las Vegas * this weekend. I've never been, I'm told it's incredible. If you took my shift, could go with them. Everybody wins. Darkness. We hear an and cigarette lighter. The flame finally catches and we see Simon. He feels around, touching the ceiling, the walls, the floor. He's locked in the trunk of a car. Shit. Shit! He starts kicking, hyperventilating. The lighter goes out. 8/26/98 Revisions Part Two: `Shoot' Simon keeps Fucking let me out of here! The lighter burns his thumb. He switches hands. Listens for a second. The car isn't driving anymore. He tries to catch his breath, but keeps getting more panicked. key in the lock. The trunk lid opens a crack. Bright daylight spills in. Simon the lid and pops up, ready to swing a tire iron. back off, laughing. We are... Mo'fuckin Jack-in-the-box. (19) is not black, but thinks he is. Simon climbs out of the trunk and does a face-plant in the gravel. He's shit-faced drunk. Dude, you passed out before we left (24) was a tailback at and still has the build. He is black, and has no confusion over this matter. Simon is about to reply when he suddenly Everyone backs away. Tiny takes the tire iron, puts it to the side of the trunk. He starts cranking it while "Pop Goes the Weasel," ending with... Pop! Goes the asshole. 8/26/98 Revisions massive land yacht from the pre-Embargo era. (23) is driving, nursing a beer. Marcus reads a magazine. Tiny talks from the enormous back seat, where Simon is recuperating. So this chick, she's bobbing up and down on my dick like she's fucking Marilyn Chambers. She actually found your dick? (ignoring) Then she starts going around the ouside-- you know, painting the tree--when It hits her in the eye. And her contact, it's like stuck on my dick. The passengers don't seem impressed. Her contact lens. It's stuck on the end of my dick. Was it hard or soft? What, my dick? The contact lens. Do you remember if it was a colored lens? That she used to have two blue eyes and now she had one blue and one brown? What the fuck does that matter? (leaning over seat) It matters because it happened to me. It was my story. told this story about a year ago. The difference was, knew those small-but-important details. That, and it was true. 8/26/98 Revisions Oh. Whatever. Whatever? Whatever. beat. And another. The matter just won't drop. Yo, pull your stinky dinky out of my ass. was just trying to make conversation. Fuck. Give a nigger a break. Singh not again. What nigger? This nigger? My mother's mother's mother was black. So you say, yet we have never seen a picture of this Ebonic woman. Stop. Truce. If you were any less black, you would be clear. (moaning) Stop. Look at your skin. see black because know am. Color is a state of mind. Thank you Rhythm Nation. 8/26/98 Revisions It's a dive, and nearly empty. The guys work their way down both sides of a self-service food bar. Simon is mostly recovered. So what does Valentina do? She's a nutritionist. She also teaches a class at this college. What class? Tantric sexuality for couples. She teaches people how to fuck? Man, taught myself. (to Simon) You shouldn't eat shrimp. It's loaded with iodine. This shit is expensive. You're paying five bucks for lettuce and seeds and shit. Tiny up-ends the rest of the shrimp cocktail onto his plate. Pissed, Singh scoops away a handful for himself. The guys eat. Tiny tries to make a sandwich out of the various foods on his plate, but the bread keeps crumbling. Thing is, most people really don't know how to make love. They just put it in and move it around until they get off. What tantra teaches you is how to prolong and deepen the experience, bring it to a higher level. If one man in ten were having the sex I'm having, there would be no war. 8/26/98 Revisions What's the longest you and her ever did it? Fourteen hours. Holy shit! How many times you shoot? Not once. Fourteen hours, you didn't go once. Not even at the end? You redirect the orgasm inside. He's greeted with skeptical looks. (CONT'd) How long does your orgasm last? couple seconds? I've had orgasms that lasted an hour and a half. Bullshit. Swear to God. And do mean Allah. When was the last time you got off? mean like, wet. haven't ejaculated in six months. Six months! Anyone can do it. All it takes is discipline. You are some kind of Obi Wan Kenobi motherfucker. 8/26/98 Revisions (cont'd) Call me old school, but am still down with coming and going. Am right? Singh agrees. Simon, however, is still intrigued. We hear slot machines in the distance. Marcus picks a gold card up from the counter. (reading) Todd Gaines. The drug dealer. He gets a discount. He let me use it. He's a good guy. He's the good drug dealer. get confused. We'll pay cash anyway. This is just to get the room. The Desk Woman returns with their keys. Could you answer a question... (checks nametag) ...Rachel? Hypothetically, do you think a man could make love to a woman for 14 hours without ever achieving climax? think my manager would be better able to answer that question. Would you like me to call him over? No. Not necessary. Great then. Welcome to the Riviera. Simon walks away with Marcus. (low) Lesbian. 8/26/98 Revisions Doubled over, Tiny on the bathroom door. Singh emerges, pale and sweating. He steps over Tiny, who crawls in. Hanging up his clothes, Marcus waves away the smell. Singh lying down on a bed. Did tell you not to eat the shrimp? have something for you. Where did put it? Oh, it's right here. He gives him the finger. Simon is on the phone by the window. (over action) Todd, it's Simon. What's up?...I'm in Vegas, we just got here. What was the name of the place you said we should go...The Crazy Horse. What are you doing tonight? Marcus neatly unfolds his clothes, hanging them up in the closet. (on phone) You're going to a wedding?...What is it, a rave? From the wall, Simon and Marcus look to a door by the window. (on phone) No, know Claire...Are you going to fuck her? Simon points at the door. Marcus finally opens it to reveal a 12 year-old in the adjoining hotel room. Who are you? This is our room. Simon leans around to look. 8/26/98 Revisions Oh. What are you doing? Raping small children. The Boy's yanks him back from the door, shutting it. Simon and Marcus are fully macked out. Marcus adjusts the shoulders of his bright yellow jacket. Did mention how much like your jacket? No. There's a reason. The elevator bell Simon finds Marcus at a blackjack table. Let me borrow some money. Where's your money? lost it The is waiting for Marcus to play. He takes a card, bust. We've been here five minutes. was playing this game at a hundred dollar table and didn't understand it, but now do. think figured out how to beat it. Let me see your wallet. 8/26/98 Revisions Simon hands it over. Marcus pockets it. You can have it back in an hour. No, no. No buts. One hour, right here. Simon wanders, bored. He hits on a at the nickel slots. When she rebuffs him, he turns his attention to the Simon wanders amid the spilling out of the Shapiro wedding reception. He helps himself to a glass of champagne. Simon shares the elevator with drunken bridesmaids and Both are 19. Okay, if you're from over there, then where did you meet these friends? Of yours. Who don't see. They already knew each utter, but Marcus met in traffic school. His accent is suddenly Irish. It's weirdly charming. (mocking) Een traffic skewl? I'm a good driver, am. learned everything from American television. Hunter, Magnum -- The Knight Rider is an excellent program. The doors open at the Beckys' floor. They get off. Rebecca turns... Do you want to be getting high with us? 8/26/98 Revisions While Rebecca smokes up, Becky tears a kleenex in half. She rolls each piece into a plug, shoving one up each nostril. (explaining) Otherwise, can't hold it in. Simon hands her the pipe and the lighter. Rebecca blows a perfect smoke ring at Simon. He smiles, a little smoke escaping. She leans close and kisses him. Softly at first, then harder. They're a few beats into it when... Oh my God! Her kleenex is on fire, flames in each nostril. Hands waving, she stands up. Snorts hard. The plugs shoot out, landing on the carpet, which begins to smolder. Simon stamps the flames out. You're fine. You're fine. Becky is crying. (to Simon) Tell her she's fine. You're beautiful. He kisses her. After a moment, her panic subsides. She kisses him back. Simon slides between the two Beckys, three naked bodies clenching and releasing. breathing harder and faster, faster, until he suddenly stops. The expression on his face is agonizing, like a tightrope walker about to lose his balance. The Beckys stop to watch him, worried he might be hurt. Finally, he breathes again. 8/26/98 Revisions Did you go? He shakes his head. Why not? Tantra, baby. new position, Rebecca on top and sweating. Next to Simon, Becky is passed out and It's only as we look over Rebecca's back that we see On the bed, Simon lies motionless in aching nirvana. His head turns. He sees the flames. And does nothing. Rebecca reaches climax with an inhuman series of It's on the third of these that the smoke alarm suddenly It settles into a piercing Becky falls out of bed, disoriented. Sees the fire and Rebecca climbs off Simon to attack the flames with a pillow, beating them down. Holding her head together, Becky tries to reach the smoke detector itself. Amid the chaos, Simon feels for his shoes. In the elevator on the right, Simon jabs at the button while getting his jeans on. As his doors slide closed, the left elevator opens, revealing hotel Gentle Christmas At the sinks, Marcus wets his fingers to fix his hair. An washes his hands at the next sink, looks around for a towel. Marcus takes two from the dispenser, hands them over. When he's finished, the Texan sets the crumpled towels on the counter, along with a dollar bill. He taps his hat and leaves. 8/26/98 Revisions beat before Marcus sees the bill and makes the connection. He shouts to the closed door... am not a bathroom attendant! Not breaking his stride, Simon catches Marcus coming out the restroom. Hey. We're leaving. Fuck yeah. Seething, Marcus joins Simon in line for a cab. white Ferrari pulls up to the curb beside them. The tosses the keys at Marcus, who can't help but catch them. Keep it close and there's an extra ten bucks for you. He slips Marcus a five as he rushes into the casino. beat. Simon is cracking up. As we we see the valets are wearing the same yellow sportcoat as Marcus. Get in. Get in the car. Get in. Top off, wind whipping. Marcus downshifts, letting the engine as he passes another sports car. The is blasting. Pale and dazed, Simon tries to light a cigarette. It blows out of his fingers. It was his last. He adjusts himself in his seat, uncomfortable. (shouting over noise) Question. When you're doing tantra, you hold it in at the end, right? 8/26/98 Revisions No. Never. Redirect the energy, but you never hold it in. Haven't you ever gotten blue balls? Hurts like a bitch. (nodding) Sort of a dull ache. Exactly. Marcus looks over to Simon, who is trying to get his breath. Empty intersections, no traffic to speak of. Marcus is looking for a cross-street. They're lost. See if there's a map. Simon goes through the glove compartment. Amid the condoms and parking tickets, he finds one. Orange County. He throws it out. He tries to shut the compartment, but it's caught on something. He reaches in... Holy shit. Marcus looks over. Simon gently pulls out a 9mm Baretta. Fascinated, he turns it over in his hands. Marcus tries to keep an eye on the road. Don't point it at me! How do know if it's loaded? First, you stop pointing it at me. Simon aims the other way, out the window. As they drive through an intersection, they pass a car full of Floor. Floor! 8/26/98 Revisions Simon throws the gun to the floor. Marcus flinches, expecting it to go off. It doesn't. He checks the rear-view mirror. No trouble. Simon picks up the gun again. I've never held a real gun before. It's heavier than thought. Great, put it back. want to know if it's loaded. How do He starts pulling and pushing on it, trying to get the clip out. He's not going to stop until he does it or shoots himself trying. Hold the wheel. Marcus removes the clip, hands it over. Simon counts the bullets. hold ten men's lives in my hand. It's a nine millimeter. It doesn't have stopping power. Right. For that you'd need Magnum Force. At a pull-up payphone, Marcus is looking through the map in the phone book. Simon is still fondling the gun. This is why came here. This is America. I'm serious. You want to take one symbol for all of America, it's not the flag or the hawk... ...eagle... ...or the automobile. America is about a man and a gun. 8/26/98 Revisions (cont'd) From the American revolution, to taking the West, killing Indians, American history is all about access to firearms. In England, we can't even own a gun. Here, it's a birthright. (beat) If were an American, I'd join the The He tears a page out of the phone book. You're certain? The was this chick thing in the `70s. Chicks with guns? beat. Giving up... Yes. Tiny lies on the bed, watching a bad hotel porno. Singh comes out of the bathroom, pale and shivering. Kill me. ain't your bitch. Kill yourself. at the adjoining room door. They try to ignore it, but it's relentless. Finally, Tiny answers it. What the fuck? It's the same boy. You got some smoke? You got some pubic hair yet? 8/26/98 Revisions Man, I've been smoking up since was eight. Where is your mom at? He pushes past the kid... 8/26/98 Revisions The mirror image of their room. The same porno plays on the Kleenexes on the bed. She's not my mom. Tiny rummages through the open suitcases, finally finding a bottle of Pepto-Bismol. He cracks the seal and drinks half of it on the spot. Are you on heroin? Are you kicking? I'm kicking your ass if you knock again. Tiny goes back into the other room, pulling the door shut. Fuck you. Sodium vapor lights overhead. Simon adjusts something in his coat while Marcus locks the Ferrari. Listen up. They're going to ask if you want buy a bottle of champagne. You don't, but don't say that right off. Explain. Champagne means you want a private dance. You can't afford it, neither can But if they know we're not biting, they don't even dangle the bait. So, "champagne" is a code. (beat) What does vodka mean? 8/26/98 Revisions Nothing. At the door, Marcus stops Simon before he goes in. We have one word, champagne. You can order anything you want, anything, as long as it's not champagne. Pitch black except for tiny Christmas lights. To Simon's left, a skanky plays video poker. At the bar, Marcus to the -- the is deafening. Out of the shadows, two dancers approach. They split up, blonde taking Simon, while brunette heads for Marcus. Holly offers Simon a hand, they shake. She leans close to talk into his ear. He smiles. Noelle taps Marcus on the shoulder, ducks to the other side playfully. Takes a sip of his drink. Simon points to Marcus. Holly nods, feeling the fabric of his shirt. Noelle laughs at something Marcus said. Holly measures her hand against Simon's, rubs it against her neck. He is staring at her magnificent breasts. At Noelle's urging, Marcus flexes his bicep. Noelle flutters. We come in as Holly leans over to say something. Simon speaks first... I'd like to buy your most expensive bottle of champagne. curtain at the end, blue light overhead. Holly leads the way with a bottle of champagne. Noelle follows with glasses. Behind them, the guys. Marcus gives Simon a look. Simon shrugs it off. 8/26/98 Revisions The curtain parts, letting the women through. From the darkened space beyond, a giant steps out -- massive even compared to Marcus. He's sucking on a lollipop. need a major credit card. Marcus looks to Simon, who hands over the gold card. Vic Jr. reads them the boilerplate... This is a gentlemen's club. You are expected to behave as gentlemen. will be giving you one rule. If you break this rule, will break your arm. Are we clear? Yes. The ladies can touch you. You cannot touch them. At any point, for any reason. Is this clear? Crystal. Enjoy your evening. He pulls back the curtain. mirrored ball spins overhead, stars racing across the black paneling. Holly nudges Simon into his chair. He and Marcus sit back to back. As the champage we move into a series of overlapping shots: Noelle licks the foam from Holly's fingers. Holly rubs the bottle against herself, pours. Noelle and Holly dance together, a tinsel ribbon around them. Simon adjusts himself in the crotch. Noelle lights a cigar for Marcus as Holly dances alone. Holly lifts her miniskirt to reveal a g-string. Simon cranes his neck back, banging heads with Marcus. 8/26/98 Revisions Noelle takes a puff off the cigar. Holly straddles Simon, rubs against him. He shudders. His hands start to rise. She gently pushes them back down. Marcus whispers something to Noelle. Noelle comes up behind Holly, moving with her as she rubs against Simon. Marcus turns to watch. Enraptured, Simon watches the four-armed woman on top of him. His fingers start to twitch. Noelle kisses the edge of Holly's neck. Simon's hands rise, reach... Holly And suddenly... Simon grabs Noelle's ass. It's Heaven. (yelling) Hands! Hands! Noelle and Holly both get off him. Holly kicks his leg. From behind the curtain, Vic Jr. charges in. He heads straight for Marcus. The other one! Simon tumbles off his chair, scrambling. What the fuck did tell you! He kicks Simon in the ass. Yo. Yo! He fucked up, he lost control. Am talking to you? I'm talking to your faggot friend here. He kicks Simon again. Holly and Noelle stand in the corner. This has happened a hundred times. We're leaving. 8/26/98 Revisions Vic Jr. kicks Simon again. Enough! Stop kicking him. (no effect) said to fucking stop kicking him. Vic Jr. turns on Marcus. beat. He shoves him, hard. I'm not trying to throw down here. (another shove) You think you can kick my ass? don't want to try. Vic Jr. Marcus, an old-fashioned bitch slap. beat. Marcus tries to keep the rage down. Feels his nose bleeding. He backs away, but Vic Jr. keeps coming. Suddenly... For a beat, no one's sure what happened. We look around to Marcus. Vic Jr. Holly. Noelle. Then finally Simon. He just fired. The gun is steady in his hand. Marcus checks his shirt. spray of blood. Vic Jr. checks his arm. It's bleeding. We for a moment, the mirrored ball still spinning overhead. Everybody back the fuck away. They do. Marcus holds his place. Oh, man. Fuck. Blood is squirting out of Vic Jr.'s arm. He holds it, dumbfounded. 8/26/98 Revisions (to Holly) Is there another way out? Behind you. fire escape door. Simon motions for Marcus to come. Pushing the bar, no alarm sounds. They back out, into the night. The door swings shut. beat. Suddenly, an charges in with a silver .45. He is Vic Sr., 60, owner and proprietor. You don't fuck with Victor. What happened! They shot Vic. They went out the back. Victor the door open, ready to fire. The alley is clear. The comes through the curtain. (handing off gun) Find them. The man races out. Victor looks at his son's arm. It's bloody, but he'll live. Holly down the hallway. Call 911. No! No cops. The Ferrari as it takes the curb too fast. From the alley, the Bartender chases after it, finally stopping to squeeze off three None seem to hit. The Ferrari tears down the street. Taking a left, Marcus slows down a little. We're on an empty street well away from the Crazy Horse. He dabs at his bloody nose. 8/26/98 Revisions In the passenger seat, Simon looks at the gun in the hand. He suddenly throws it out. What are you doing? Getting rid of the weapon. Marcus slams on the brakes. It has your fingerprints on it. Oh shit. Craning around, Simon looks for it in the street. Marcus backs the car up. Suddenly, a phone Lights flicker on the car phone. Do we answer? Marcus brakes again. The phone keeps It's probably Orange County asking where the hell his car is. It's a cell phone. They can trace where we are even if we don't answer. Get the gun. Go. Find it. Simon climbs out and starts looking, crouching to look under cars. In the Ferrari, Marcus sits back and kicks the phone with his boot, over and over until it stops, dead. For a moment, silence. Then the car's starts going off. Marcus with frustration. He punches buttons on the keychain, but nothing will quiet it. He tries the key in the ignition. It won't turn over. Climbing out of the car, he kicks it with all his might. Simon finds the gun, crawling under a truck to get it. 8/26/98 Revisions Using his jacket, Marcus starts frantically wiping off the inside and outside of the Ferrari. Simon joins him. The whole time, the alarm is still Satisfied, Marcus motions that they're done. He and Simon take off running down the street. bent needle pierces two flaps of skin, drawing a line of blood with the thread. Victor ties another stitch in Vic Jr.'s arm. He's had practice at this. In the background, the Bartender and Noelle are watching. Victor's tirade is directed at all of them. Just because a rapper has a white buddy doesn't mean he's Sidney Fucking Poitier. You check them. You pat them down. (gritted teeth) know. (to Noelle) And you, you were on top of him. You didn't feel anything. She shakes her head, crying. [CONT'd] This thing. This thing is a wall of shit. It is a fucking call from on high that have to leave. have to get out before this all just falls in on me. Vic Jr. winces with pain. [CONT'd] You know what wakes me up in the middle of the night, covered in sweat? You aren't any worse than anyone else of your fucked up generation. Towel. Noelle hands him a towel to mop up the blood. [CONT'd] In the old days, you know how you got to the top? By being better than the guy ahead of you. 8/26/98 Revisions [CONT'd] (cont'd) How do you people get to the top? By being so fucking incompetent that the guy ahead of you can't even do his job, he falls on his ass and congratulations, you're on top. Only now the top is down here when it used to be up here and you don't even know the difference. He finishes the last stitch, tying it off. [CONT'd] My generation, we're dinosaurs. We're gonna die. You're gonna kill us off. But you'll never be dinosaurs. You're little fucking rats and that's all you're ever going to be. Holly looks in, holding a gold card. Victor motions, "well?" She hands it over. They said they were from Los Angeles. Noelle nods. Then they must be staying somewhere, isn't that right Noelle? Noelle nods harder, crying again. Pale and dehydrated, Tiny sits on the toilet. He the theme to Dream of Jeannie." Once Karen learned these simple rules, she discovered blackjack was as easy as it was fun. Singh is propped up on one of the beds. He's just this side of death. Toilet Tiny comes out of the bathroom, takes the other bed. Steve decided to try his hand at craps. 8/26/98 Revisions Tiny resumes After a few beats, Singh joins in with the theme to "Bewitched." The melodies blend surprisingly well. Just into the second chorus, the phone Yo! Mmmhmm. Room 875. He hangs up. Who was that? Some shit, dunno. In the passenger seat, Vic Jr. flips a cell phone shut. He was working through the yellow pages. They're at the Riviera. Victor changes lanes. He on the horn, at the car that cut him off. Motherfucker! Climbing out of a cab, Marcus throws two bills at the Simon is already running down the sidewalk. Simon furiously pounds the elevator button. With a doors finally open. He and Marcus get on. The doors shut. In the same shot, we to look at the lobby, where Victor and Vic Jr. have just entered. They walk calmly but quickly. Victor presses the `8' button. The mirrored doors close. Half a beat later, they open again. 8/26/98 Revisions get on. Press `4.' The doors don't close. The Woman presses the `Door Open' button. The other one, honey. She sees her mistake. The doors finally close. In the reflection, the Man looks back at Victor and Vic Jr. Smiles. Sure is a fun way to spend Christmas, isn't it? No answer. The doors open. This isn't our floor. The Man steps out of the elevator, looking around. Maybe we're five. Or six. We'll try both. She reaches for the panel. Victor grabs her hand. She startled. Without saying a word, he shoves her off the elevator, on the door close button until it finally responds. Marcus and Simon burst in like a cyclone. Marcus grabs his clothes out of the closet. All right, listen up. We're leaving in 30 seconds. Grab what you can. What the fuck? Simon tosses Singh his wallet, pockets the keys. Just do it. Now! The panic is contagious. After a stunned beat, Tiny and Singh start moving, putting on shoes and restuffing suitcases. at the door. Everyone freezes. More 8/26/98 Revisions Room service. Simon steps gingerly to the door, looks out the peephole. fleshy hand blocks the fisheye. Victor and son smile at a walking past. When they're gone, a giant orange plumber's wrench drops down from Jr.'s jacket sleeve. Simon backs away from the door, freaking out. Marcus checks the windows. They're eight stories above a parking lot. Tiny knocks on the door to the adjoining room (low) Hey. Kid. The kids mutes the Kid. Open up the door. Fuck you. Look, I'm really sorry, you know? It's just, it would be really swell if you would open this door. Now. It's kind of an emergency. Hundred bucks. Fuck! 8/26/98 Revisions Give him the money. He gathers money from their wallets. Pulling all his weight into it, Vic Jr. begins to pry the door handle off. The door knob jiggles. back to the guys. Tiny finally chips in. Simon shoves the cash in a wad under the door. They wait. The Boy counts the money, straightening the bills. Open now! The door handle bends further, further. Finally The far side of the lock mechanism drops to the floor. Fuck! Fingers reach into the hole, trying to pull back the bolt. Finally catch it. The door swings open, revealing... ...an empty room. Colt .45 in hand, Victor storms in. Checks behind doors and under beds. The suitcases are half-packed. Singh has his ear to the door. (whisper) They're in. 8/26/98 Revisions Simon peers out the peephole into the hallway. Marcus lifts the Boy against the wall. (whisper) If you let them in here, they will kill you. Understood? The boy nods. Marcus drops him. Simon opens the hallway door a crack. It's clear. On the count of three, they go. We stay with the boy, who sits back against the windows, excited and rich. There's a at the adjoining door. The boy tucks the money away. With a we hear the door being kicked open. It only takes four blows. (pointing) Down the hall. That way. Swinging off the railings, the four guy race down the stairs. Up above, a door open. Running to the Cadillac, Singh feels for his keys. got `em. As Simon unlocks the door, the other three look at each other -- should he really be driving? as Simon backs out. In the distance, Victor and son appear around the corner. Victor motions to go for the truck. line of cars wait to pay at the booth. Simon slams on the brakes. Looking out the back window, Marcus sees the bright lights of the Ram Charger approaching. They're right behind us. 8/26/98 Revisions Who? In answer to his question, the Ram Charger into the trunk of the Cadillac. Simon cranks the wheel, barely avoiding the car ahead of him. Not slowing, Simon aims for the entrance lane, where the bar is coming down behind a small Nissan. Threading the needle, Simon makes it past the car and the gate. The Ram Charger smashes through the bar. The Cadillac charges out of the parking lot, nearly hitting another car as it heads onto the Strip. Looking back, we see the Ram Charger following them out. Four a.m., but there's still traffic. The Cadillac slaloms between taxis and tourists. Approaching an intersection, yellow light... Cop. Cop! There's a police car waiting at the stoplight. Simon hits the brakes, just short of a They stop in a middle lane, next to the cop. Simon and Marcus look over to the trying to be calm. Singh and Tiny peer out the back. The Ram Charger slowly approaches, no hurry. In the squad car, the Officer takes a radio call. Drunken walk past. The crosswalk switches to a flashing red hand. How did they find us? It's their town. I'm sure they have people. The Ram Charger pulls in right behind the Cadillac. It's so tall, all we see are the blinding headlights through the back window. Singh and Tiny slink down. Marcus checks the gun on his lap. 8/26/98 Revisions The red hand stops flashing. The opposing light goes from green to yellow. Simon gently the engine. Suddenly, a Lights flashing, the police car makes a right turn from the left lane, cutting in front of them. The is deafening. Simon sees his opportunity. 8/26/98 Revisions Gunning the engine, he hangs a hard left, cutting across three oncoming lanes. The Ram Charger tries to follow, but the traffic is already moving. Over the protest of many the pickup finally forces its way through. The Cadillac takes a corner hard, fishtailing into oncoming traffic. Tiny Simon pulls it back into the lane. In the rear-view mirror, we see the Ram Charger, gaining. We have to get off the major streets. Take a right up here. No, not here! It's too late. Simon mistook an alley for an actual road. Hold on. Aiming for the alley, Simon hits a curb on the way in. Singh's head against the roof. The passenger-side mirror smashes off against the wall. Mother of fuck! Just inches of clearance on either side, the alley runs behind a series of strip malls and office buildings. There's only one way out -- Simon's aiming for the boulevard on the far side. (looking out back) don't see `em. The end of the alley approaches. From the far edge, a flashing orange light. giant street-sweeper is slowly crossing the alley. We to see the Cadillac approaching. Shit. (looking back) Wait, no. They're coming in. 8/26/98 Revisions Behind them, the Ram Charger gingerly negotiates a three-point turn into the alley. Wider, it scrapes against one side. Ahead, the street sweeper is blocking one-quarter of the alley. One-third. moment of hesitation, then Simon floors it. The Caddy hits thirty, forty. Engine -- We can't make it! The sweeper is already halfway across the alley. Singh braces for impact. Somehow, Simon still thinks he can clear it. At the last moment, Simon on the brakes. They're skidding towards it. Marcus grabs the wheel and jerks it. The front bumper catches the wall, sending the trunk against the far alley wall. ear-piercing ribbon of sparks shoots off as the front and rear bumpers are scraped away. Forward momentum finally stops. The abrupt stop sends Tiny flying into the front seat, where his head against the dash. Marcus's seat breaks, him. He pushes back, but Singh in protest. Simon blinks, trying to figure out if he's alive. With Tiny's bleeding head on his lap, he shifts into reverse. The tires in place. The car is wedged in tight sideways. Further down the alley, we find the broken-off In its cracked face we see five Ram Chargers approaching. giant tire smashes the mirror to bits. 8/26/98 Revisions Shifting gears, Simon tries to rock the car back and forth, making no progress. Looking over his seat, Marcus sees the giant pickup heading right for them. The headlights are bright enough to cast shadows. Forcing back the seat, Marcus stands up through the open sunroof. Aims and Once. Twice. Three times. On the first shot, Vic Junior ducks down. Two bullets punch through the windshield. The third ricochets off the hood. Victor keeps the pedal to the floor. He's not stopping. All four guys duck just before impact. The Ram Charger into the side of the Cadillac, pushing it down the alley. More sparks shoot off as it goes. Looking ahead, the street sweeper has moved past the end of the alley, but the far side of the street beyond is a construction area, flashing baricades all around. The Ram Charger will push them right into it. Clearing the end of the alley, Simon punches the gas. Swinging wide, the Cadillac comes free with another Momentum keeps the Ram Charger heading straight for the construction. Victor hooks the wheel hard, trying to avoid it. 8/26/98 Revisions Hitting a parked car, the Ram Charger tips and rolls over, landing on its side. It along the asphalt, finally coming to rest. Simon fights to regain control, the street outside a blur. Over his shoulder, an oncoming Yugo can't stop fast enough. The little car hits just in front of the tire, sending the Cadillac spinning back the opposite direction. Tiny's unconscious body flies out the passenger window. Marcus and Singh both grab hold. As Simon rights the spin, the Cadillac brushes past the green street sweeper, still humming along. Marcus and Singh pull Tiny back in, inches away from decapitation. Simon finally settles into a lane, checking the rear-view mirror. 8/26/98 Revisions We look through the windshield to find Victor piled on top of his son. Regaining his wits, the old man steps on Vic Jr.'s shoulder. Gets another foot into the steering wheel, climbing up to the driver's door window. Victor looks out to see the Cadillac turning down a side street, out of sight. Sonofabitch! The Cadillac, bruised but unbroken, heads west. Las Vegas shimmers in the distance. In the back seat, Tiny is propped up with a bloody shirt pressed to his head. Singh has his feet up to brace the back of Marcus's seat. Just so we're clear. You stole a car, shot a bouncer, and had sex with two women? You had sex with two women? Simon ignores them, still checking his rear-view mirror. We can be in Mexico by noon. say we split up from there. I'll take Baja. Fuck Mexico. We're going home. To 8/26/98 Revisions Simon, think about it. If they were going to call the cops, they would have called them in Las Vegas. They just wanted us gone, and we're gone. It's over. Simon checks the mirror, checks the road. With a deep breath, he tries to believe. But doesn't. Vic Jr. peels back his bandage to check the bleeding. His father is at a payphone. In the background, we see a tow truck starting to pull the Ram Charger back upright. (on phone) Tommy, it's Vic. need you to run a credit card for me. You ready? He takes the gold card from his pocket. First name `Todd.' Last name `Gaines.' Vic Jr. looks to his dad. Off-screen, a plays. Claire leans beside Simon. His eyes track Ronna as she passes. 8/26/98 Revisions (low) Don't. Why not? She's been on for fourteen hours. At her locker, Ronna misdials the combination. Frustrated, she the locker, then re-dials. Simon approaches Ronna gingerly. We stay back with Claire, who sets to work opening a box of expired cookies. She half-listens as Ronna and Simon have their discussion at the lockers, then at the time clock. Simon follows Ronna out into the alley. Claire takes a seat atop a crappy console eating an oatmeal cookie. The on the soap opera seem familiar. I'm not the man you're looking for. We both know you were on the pier. You saw what happened to Carmen. 8/26/98 Revisions We to see the Onscreen, a police interrogation room. The Cop is played by Adam. The Accused is played by Zack. Don't forget, detective. was cleared of all charges. don't care how many high-priced lawyers you bring in. Eden Valley will never stand for your kind of scum. As the rises, we on Zack. on Adam. The image Adam stands mostly naked, his shirt off his shoulders and jeans around his ankles. Loop -- the white dreadlocked guy -- retapes a transmitter on his thigh. wire runs up to a microphone on his chest. Zack and Burke are by the door, watching. The bathroom is really cramped. You work out, don't you? You have to. It's in the contract. No, you have a great body. The door starts to open, someone trying to come in. Burke holds it shut. 8/26/98 Revisions Hey! People in here! Whoever was trying to come in gives up. Burke pulls a college sweatshirt out of a shopping bag, hands it to Zack. Motions that he's supposed to wear it. As he's putting it on... Just so we're clear. Whether you get something on this guy or not, Adam and are done today. Finished. Charges dropped. That's how it works, right? Burke smiles, an amused roll of the eyes. What? Seems to me, if a guy's so concerned about the legal process, how come he finds himself getting busted for possession? Adam and Zack share a look. beat. Relax. sign your form and the whole thing goes away. Your lawyer got you a good deal. Loop sits back, his job finished. Is it safe to have a radio against my balls like this? beat. Safe enough. as he presses a button. His headphones register. small sit-down dive in West Hollywood. The four men finish lunch. think my girlfriend watches your show. 8/26/98 Revisions Tell them what your girlfriend does. She doesn't do anything. They're not even married and she does nothing. My wife -- we've been married two years -- she still takes overtime three nights a week. Loop bows to Burke's superiority. My wife's a deputy sherriff, you believe that? cop and a sherriff, married. It's like the freakin' odd couple. 8/26/98 Revisions smell a pilot. Burke is oblivious to sarcasm. Loop's pita is self- destructing. He eats faster, trying to finish before it falls apart. You guys got girlfriends? What am saying? You gotta lot of girlfriends don't you? You got women sending you their panties. Two good- looking guys... (to Loop) What do you say? (mouth full) Pussy magnets. If was not a happily married man would be rubbing up against you to get some of that. (off Loop's reaction) Some of the pussy power. Zack offers Loop a napkin. He passes. Actually, I'm settled down. Four years now. (still chewing) No ring. Nothing legal. Draining the rest of his Coke, Burke gets up to dump his tray. (to Zack) How about you? Same. This is a crime. You two should be out getting laid. 8/26/98 Revisions Loop stands nearby while Adam talks to no one in particular. Star light, star bright first star that see tonight... Burke and Zack listen to a radio recorder. wish may, wish might... Burke turns the volume down, picks up his walkie-talkie. (on walkie-talkie) That's good. I'm getting him. Through the windows, we can see Loop and Adam approaching. We hear low as they talk. So, Zack. What does your girlfriend look like? About five-eight, brown hair, blue eyes. Hot. Yeah. She faithful? No. don't think so. You faithful? Not anymore. 8/26/98 Revisions Burke drives, with Loop in the passenger seat and Adam and Zack in back. (to Loop) Zack's girlfriend is fucking around on him. Man, I'm sorry. How did you find out? corner of his eye. It's no big...I don't really want to get into it. C'mon, tell us. Absolutely. Tell us. There's a palpable tension between Adam and Zack. The others don't see it. found socks. What, red socks, blue socks? White socks. You know how the good kind of socks have band around the ankle that keeps them from stretching out? When moved in, every one of the socks had that. Suddenly, there was one sock that didn't. You hear that? We got John Sherlock Holmes in the car here. We pull into the parking lot of Adam turns on Zack. 8/26/98 Revisions Alright. But you've been fucking around, too. Only after found out. Huh. At the refrigerator section, both Adam and Zack reach for orange juice. Both back off. Adam motions, after you. So, Zack. Do you know who your girlfriend's fucking? He over-articulates, as if speaking for a Learn English Now! tape. Zack does likewise. Their animosity is palpable. No, Adam. do not. have suspicions. Mostly former boyfriends who keep calling. What a coincidence. have the exact same problem with my girlfriend. In fact, think she's been sleeping around on me, too. Isn't it ironic. Don't you think? (beat) Maybe should start checking for socks, too. Zack's glare could strip paint. As Adam and Zack head for the front, we to find Mannie and Claire, who have been watching the spat while restocking. Gay men are so hot. It's tragic. 8/26/98 Revisions Zack pushes the cart past the checkstands, looking at each -- they're all female. Adam is starting to panic. In near whispers... He's not here. What are we supposed to do? He's not here. We're going to ask. You're going to ask. Why me? You look more wholesome. Just improv. He steers the cart into Ronna's checkstand, where she's waiting on a Clutchy Old Woman who eyes everything suspiciously. Zack pulls out his cell phone, fake dials. Who are you calling? Nobody. I'm giving you an opening. Adam and Zack approach on either side of the car, get in the back. Burke and Loop are waiting. He wasn't there. The British guy, he wasn't there. No, we heard. You guys did great. This chick... (checks notebook) Ronna. You think she can score? Maybe. Probably. 8/26/98 Revisions Then that's all we need. It's all connected. The circle of life. Waiting in The Beast, Mannie drums his fingers to the Claire is arguing with Ronna. She finally relents and goes upstairs with her. Burke is watching through binoculars. Adam, Zack and Loop are in the car with him. Now they're both going. What's up with that? Adam and Zack stand around as Burke gets the house ready, moving furniture and poofing pillows, as if it's remotely believable. So if she gets the stuff, what, you arrest her? We try to bring her over. (beat) See, we arrest her and then what? One crack whore off the street. So we cut her a deal. She helps us get this guy. We cut him a deal. He helps us get the guy above him. It's just like what happened with you. So, sooner or later, everybody's working for The Man. Exactly. 8/26/98 Revisions Adam motions to leave it alone. Zack won't. (leaning out the back room) She's coming up. Burke cracks his neck, showtime. 8/26/98 Revisions What if she isn't really a dealer though? If you just pulled her into this one thing, wouldn't that be entrapment? If she's making this deal, she's a dealer. Doesn't matter if its her first or her last. We stay on Zack, unconvinced. Zack looks over as Burke comes out of the kitchen. Cerveza? He hands Ronna the beer. (to Burke) Oh yeah. Hey. We bought a whole bunch of orange juice. It's in the car. Ronna has halfway figured out what's going on. Now, Zack tells me you got 20 at 20, is that right? (suddenly) You got a bathroom? Down the hall on the right. Let me show you... Stepping towards Ronna, his back to Burke. He very deliberately mouths a silent... Go. Ronna sees it. Her eyes go wider. Zack nods. 8/26/98 Revisions In the background, Burke is trying to look around. Ronna turns, heading down the hall. Up above, the camera is watching. For a just a second, Zack smiles. Burke Zack up against the wall, twisting an arm behind him. He kicks his feet apart, then starts to cuff him. Zack is in considerable pain. (to Adam) Now watch what do with his wrist. twist it away while put on the second cuff. That way he can't go after me. He doesn't have any leverage. He releases his hold on Zack, his hands cuffed behind him. watch all these cop shows and they never do it right. Pisses me off. Loop emerges from the back room, carrying a big box of videotapes on his way out. Hey, feel the abs on this one. He rubs Zack's stomach. You could scrub laundry on these. (re: box) Full hands. Loop pauses at the door, looking around. He's forgotten something. What? beat. Loop can't remember what it was. Nothing. I'm out of it. Merry Christmas, guys. Good to meet you. 8/26/98 Revisions Adam waves. Zack nods. Loop shuts the door behind himself. Now its just the three men. An awkward beat. We're done, now, right? That's what we talked about. Whether or not the deal went through, we just had to do our part. 8/26/98 Revisions You did your part. (relieved) Great. Well, hey. pleasure. He turns to the side, offering Burke his handcuffs to undo. Burke makes no motion to do so. Now that he's gone, there's something wanted to ask you guys about. Sort of a proposition. (beat) See, my wife and -- Irene, she's my wife -- we're both working on Christmas so we're gonna have Christmas dinner tonight. And was thinking, maybe you guys would want to come over, eat some dinner with us. My wife is great, you'll love her, then I'll sign your form. How does that sound? beat. Actually, you know, had plans. You did? do. With your girlfriend? Yes, Adam, in fact. With my girlfriend. Huh. (beat; another; then suddenly) Wow, can't believe forgot this. saw your girlfriend this morning, and she asked me to tell you that she couldn't make your plans tonight. Zack stares at Adam, a "why are you doing this" look. 8/26/98 Revisions (to Burke) It looks like we're both free. Zack hits the alarm for his red Miata, which He and Adam walk to the door, hostility simmering. prefab Nativity scene glows beside the front door. Adam pushes the doorbell, which "Hark Ye Herald Angels Sing." Horrified, Zack turns to leave. Adam stops him. Too tall for the room, a Christmas tree leans back in a corner. The rest of the living room is dominated by a giant leather sofa pit. Bored, Adam lifts a plate to check the imprint. He sets it down, straightening it. Now it's out of alignment with the other plates. He looks around casually. No one's watching. Circling the table, he fixes all the plates and moves silverware to its proper position. 8/26/98 Revisions Burke's wife is mashing potatoes with considerable zeal. Adam leans in, sees her dedication and tries to duck out. But she saw him. Yes? Hi? Sorry. Phone. Messages. Check? Here. She points. He sheepishly crosses to get it. While he's dialing, Irene starts in with the electric mixer. Butter. Milk. Salt. Adam doesn't know where to look while he's listening to his messages. He suddenly smiles. Irene notices and stops mixing. (re: phone) They're singing Christmas carols. My family. Minnesota, they do that. She leans close to listen. Smiles. She continues to lean close -- uncomfortably close -- for a long beat. We hear a toilet Zack emerges from the bathroom to find Burke stark naked, rubbing his hands over his body. Sorry. No, stay for a sec. Burke sprays more cologne on his hand. Smell this. What does it smell like? Zack shakes his head, doesn't know. One. But it's not. 8/26/98 Revisions Really. get this for a quarter what that stuff costs. It's nice. Here. He sprays some on Zack's hands, who didn't want it. While Burke turns to get some underwear, Zack tries to rub it off on the bedspread. (re: bedspread) It's down. So is the liner. It is soft. Get on. That's okay. Burke pushes Zack back flat the bed. Did you hear that? Hear what? Exactly. Individually wrapped springs. Top quality. Burke climbs onto the bed beside him. could be doing aerobics over here and you wouldn't feel it. sure wouldn't. beat. 8/26/98 Revisions So, Zack. Would you say you're open to new things? Irene is back whipping the potatoes. Of course you like your job. You get to kiss all those pretty girls. (mock bashful) It does have perks. Irene pops the beaters out of the mixer, hands one to Adam. They lick the potatoes off them. Tell me something. When you kiss those girls, you're not really kissing them, are you? It's a stage kiss. Your lips touch, but there's no tongue. There's no feeling. Nobody gets jealous. It's acting. It's not real. She takes his cleaned beater from him, dumps it in the sink. Turning back, she kisses him. Caught off guard, he backs into the refrigerator. It's a good three-second lip lock. She backs off. There's an awkward beat. See, now, that. There was a tongue there. Honey, red or white? Now dressed, Burke comes in with two bottles of wine. Zack is behind him at a distance, still creeped out from the bedroom encounter. He and Adam trade panicked stares. What goes with turkey? 8/26/98 Revisions White. Irene slides a plate under the candlestick, where wax is dripping onto the tablecloth. Burke tips the bottle at Adam. More wine? No. He doesn't want any more. Unless he does, do you? No. This has been great, just wonderful, but we're going to need to leave. Soon. Adam's not feeling well. I'm not. It's true. Burke and Irene share a look. If you gotta go, then understand. (awkward beat) But Irene and sort of had an ulterior motive inviting you here. Zack looks to Adam. He makes it sound sinister. It's not. She's right. Okay, you've looked around our place. Where do you think we got most of this stuff? Adam and Zack shake their heads. Just guess. Sears? 8/26/98 Revisions Penney's? Irene and Burke both smile. It's actually from Confederated Products. Almost everything in this house is from Confederated Products, from the toilet paper to the mattress to those candles. The wine. Even that cologne you liked. (practiced) See, Confederated Products is a multi- level direct wholesaling company. That means we don't just sell the products ourselves, we also recruit and manage teams who work under us. Irene and started eight months ago and we're already bringing in fifty thousand a year in revenues. We're the number four distributor in Southern California. By March, we might be number three. She crosses her fingers. So does Burke. We look to Zack, horrified. Now, as law enforcement officers, Irene and can't recruit distributors from inside the force. It's against the rules and we'd get fired. So what we do is look for people in other industries... ...like the entertainment industry. Wait. (realizing) You want us to sell Amway. Confederated Products. It's a different company, different quality of product. 8/26/98 Revisions Zack and Adam share a look of disbelief and wonder. Walking to the Miata, Adam takes the keys. Zack folds a form. need to do something terrifically unwholesome. need to bathe in sin. With me, or one of your other boyfriends? Adam checks a low shelf for the right brand of scotch. Zack kneels beside him. have cheated on you with exactly one guy. Ditto. Who? No. See, if tell you, you will freak out and it will be drama. Bad not-funny Roseanne kind of drama and am just not up for it. He finds the right brand. They wait in a short line. I'll tell you mine. No. Why not? 8/26/98 Revisions You can't wait to tell me, can you? You're gloating. You think yours is better than mine. don't. It's Sean Connery, isn't it? Count of three. Alright. Sure. Wait. (reconsidering) Okay. With fingers, they both count off "One. Two. Three." Jimmy. Jimmy in makeup. Jimmy? Jimmy. Jimmy. They both stand for a moment, bewildered. It's their turn at the register. Adam sets the bottle down. doorbell An apartment door opens to reveal a chubby girl in sweats with a cordless phone and giant bowl of popcorn. She drops the former into the latter. Is Jimmy here? Oh my God. Oh. My God. She's thrilled and disbelieving at the same time. She fishes the phone out of the bowl. 8/26/98 Revisions (to phone) I'll call you back. (to them) Jimmy's not here. He went to this thing. Let me find it. She can't decide whether to close the door on them or not, so she only shuts it halfway. She pokes her head out the door again. You do know, don't you? We know. take no responsibilty. was only an innocent bystander. But there was once where you missed each other by three minutes. It was so exciting. She finds what she was looking for on the back of the door. Peels off a printed card. It's some sort of rave thing. (takes card) Mary Xmas Supafest. He left an hour ago. Adam and Zack head back down the hall. She calls out after them. You're not going to kill him, are you? The little shit owes me rent. At the doors, stamp hands. We move down the line of people waiting to get in, stopping on Adam and Zack. Okay, just have to say this. The thing is, about Jimmy, he wasn't even that good. 8/26/98 Revisions know. Mediocre at best. And the sounds he made, God. It was like having sex with Nell. Adam imitates the Somewhere off Greenland, hunchback whales were beaching themselves. And the ear thing. Hello, have Q-Tips. That's really not necessary. The only thing will give him credit for is the oral. What do you mean? He was terrible. At some point just had to stop him and correct years of bad technique. had to take him by the ears and retrain him from the throat up. beat. When was that? October, maybe? Early October. And he suddenly got so much better. beat. That is so disturbing. It's like you were there. Claire cuts through the crowd with two empty cups, in search of beverage. 8/26/98 Revisions sloe-eyed blonde boy makes friendly with the who is too busy to flirt. Rebuffed, Jimmy scans the crowd. Zack comes up behind him, grabs him by the waist. Jimmy smiles, kisses him hello. Adam comes up from the other side, blows in Jimmy's ear. Jimmy is so coked up that it takes him a beat to make the connection. Zack plus Adam equals bad. He smiles nervously. Zack takes a pair of child safety scissors from his jacket. Confused, Jimmy tries to back away. Adam holds him tight. Grabbing a fistful of hair, Zack cuts it off at the scalp. He lets the hair fall to the floor. Tucking away the scissors, he and Adam walk off. The tiny Miata maneuvers through the badly organized parking lot, trying to find the way out. Zack gives directions from the passenger seat. Right. This right. This right! (passing) That was the right you wanted. Adam ignores him, convinced he can get out this way. beat later, it dead-ends in a chain link fence. Zack points to his lips. He didn't say a word. Adam slams it in reverse, backtracking. He's doing about 20 when suddenly we hear a loud By instinct, he on the brakes. Something down on the soft roof. What the fuck! 8/26/98 Revisions Ronna's face suddenly slams down on the windshield, bleeding already. Both men Her eyes are open, staring at them. After a beat, they recognize her. Oh my God. It's...It's that girl. Ronna. Her body continues its slide across the windshield, finally resting on the hood. In a sort of spasm, Adam back, shaking the body off. It drops beyond the headlights. Zack looks past Adam to see Gaines standing there, gun drawn. Go. Go. Go! What if she's... Go! Adam pops the clutch and they lurch backward, out of there. Gaines steps out to watch them go. We stay at ditch-level as the headlights retreat. The Miata is parked at the far island. Adam steadies his hands on the wheel. Zack passes him the scotch. He takes a gulp, passes it back. The energy is still revved up to 11 -- we don't let ourselves catch a breath. 8/26/98 Revisions Let's think about it logically. Either she's alive, or she's dead. If she's dead, then there's nothing we can do. If she's alive, then the guy with the gun, who seemed to want to shoot her, probably did shoot her. So even if she's alive, she's dead. Exactly. Adam takes another drink. On the plus side, the only witnesses are you, me and him. And none of us are going to want to be talking about it. So if you really think about it, it didn't turn out as badly as it could have. girl is dead. (snaps) didn't say it went perfectly. Adam gets out of the car, walks away. Zack takes another swig. Adam stops at a payphone. long moment before he reaches for the receiver. With a breath, he dials 911. 911 Emergen... He hangs up. Zack dunks the squeegee back in the bucket. With a wad of paper towels, he cleans the hood of the car. 8/26/98 Revisions Washing his face, Adam looks at his reflection in the scratched mirror. He steps to the urinal, unbuttons. Before he can start to piss, he notices something strange. He looks down at his crotch. Zack throws away the last of the towels as Adam approaches. With a finger to his lips, Adam holds out a mess of tape and wires, all connected to a battery pack. It's the microphone he was wearing. Holy sh... He stops himself. Adam throws the bundle as far as he can. They keep their voices low anyway. They wouldn't have been listening all this time. Hello, they could have been recording it. Everything we said could be on tape somewhere. They would know we did it. beat. (an idea) What if we were just running lines? For a scene? Adam won't even dignify that with an answer. long moment, just the of the lights overhead. With an almost eerie calm... There's a pretty good chance no one's found her yet. They will. 8/26/98 Revisions No. Listen. If there's no body, there's no crime. The Supafest is still in the distance. Adam digs through the trunk of the convertible, frantically rearranging the junk inside. He keeps looking around the lid, waiting for someone to sneak up on them. Zack watches Adam's fruitless arranging efforts. Stop. Okay, stop! What? It's a Miata. All Adam's effort, he's made enough room for a pizza. Maybe. We'll put her in the passenger seat. Where will I...Or you... In the passenger seat. Holding her up. Adam shudders at the thought. With a flashlight, Zack jumps down into the ditch. He nudges Ronna's body with his foot. She's dead alright. He rolls the body over, grabbing under her arms. He tries to hoist her up, but she's too heavy and the ditch is too deep. Little help? (not moving) can't. What do you mean? 8/26/98 Revisions can't do this. Frustrated, Zack tries again to lug the body out. He can't do it by himself. Meanwhile, Adam is starting to hyperventilate, tears swelling. Okay, listen to me... She's dead. She's not dead. She's dead. hit her and killed her. He looks around, expecting someone to walk up and see them. No you didn't, okay? This is all just make-believe. This is a scene. She's just acting dead. And you're just acting scared. Adam laughs to himself, still crying. See, there's the lights, and there's the camera. Watch your blocking. (pointing) There's Michelle in wardrobe, say "Hi, Michelle!" Hi, Michelle. The craft service truck is right around the corner, and they have lots of little veggie burgers on the grill. And you can have one if you just help me finish this scene. (sniffing) Can you smell them? Can you smell them on the grill? beat. I'm not delusional. 8/26/98 Revisions Then take her fucking arms! Obeying, Adam grabs Ronna's wrists as Zack pushes from below. Together they get the body out of the ditch. Zack climbs up to help maneuver her into the car. Just then... Ronna Adam freaks out, dropping his side. Ronna's head hits the dirt. Louder She's not dead. No shit! They stand back, watching Ronna as she lies half-in, half- out of the car. If she's not dead, that means we didn't kill her. We can just leave her. She's almost dead. We leave her and she dies, why did we bother coming back? mean, you still killed her. What do you mean, killed her? Christ, didn't mean it that way. C'mon. would never testify against you. Adam is not reassured. We have to stick with Plan In Plan she was dead. Zack reaches into the car, pulling out The Club. Trades a look with Adam, who finally acquieces. Almost says something, doesn't. They both look around, making sure no one's coming. Zack grips the bar like a baseball bat. Adam turns his back, covering his ears. Zack raises the bar. Adam scrunches his face tight. 8/26/98 Revisions Zack takes two quick breaths. And holds. And holds. And holds. Adam opens his eyes, looks back. Zack isn't swinging. He lowers the bar. They both breathe again, relieved. Okay. New plan. drones incessantly, the siren interrupted with an occasional Back away from the vehicle. Weaving through some parked cars, we settle on an angry its lights flashing. small throng of have gathered around to look, because Ronna's limp body lies on the hood. familiar face pushes through the crowd, just arrived. Hey, it's Kelly. Somebody beat the crap out of her. Moving to find... Somebody call an ambulance! After a beat, he realizes he should do it himself. He takes off running. look around from the edge of a van in the distance. Look, she's fine. They're getting an ambulance. She's fine. Adam keeps watching, not convinced. He turns back, a thought... What about that guy? The guy with the gun. He could still go after her. 8/26/98 Revisions Okay, listen. Girl in ditch -- that's our problem. Girl out of ditch -- that's her own problem. We're done. We did the right thing. Thunder overhead. Off Adam's look... Okay, approximately the right thing. In a half-assed, thrown-together fashion. Adam smiles despite himself. Zack points, "See? See?" That just makes Adam smile more. Home? Home. As they walk off, we leave the Mary Xmas Supafest still in the distance. Too early for the brunch crowd, just a smattering of vampires. All around, Christmas lights are strung with mad abandon. The lights overhead Everyone looks up. That's when we come to find sitting alone at a booth by the window, disassembling a newspaper. He finds the comics. 8/26/98 Revisions Laying the paper flat, he tears off the bottom corner of the page and starts reading like a kid, his whole body leaning over the table. At the door, Claire comes in, shaking the rain out of her hair. After a beat, she does it again, as if she doesn't remember doing it the first time. She's tired and wired, all nerves and raw edges. There's static only she can feel. She looks right past Gaines, out to the rain on the street. He watches her, but doesn't try to catch her eye. The Jamaican walks past her with a pot of coffee. Anywhere you want. I'm meeting people. He doesn't care. Claire takes a seat at the table in front of her, but it's not to her liking. Then a booth. She plays with the salt shakers. Bad. It's only now that she sees Gaines watching her. At first she doesn't recognize him. Then a light goes on. She climbs over the booth and into his, facing him. Hey. Hey. We're twins. She turns over his hand, compares it to hers. They both have the same ink stamp on the back. He's busted, no way to talk himself out. The Waiter comes with coffee, refills Gaines' cup. Claire overturns the cup in front of her. The Waiter fills it. She overturns a second cup, points to it. big weird smile. Reluctantly, the Waiter fills that too. Then leaves. I'll pay you back for breakfast. (leaning closer) Don't worry. I'm not really that hungry. She sheds her coat, having great difficulty with one sleeve. 8/26/98 Revisions Have you seen Ronna? Or Mannie? He shakes his head. See, when we go out, we always meet here afterwards in case we get separated. 8/26/98 Revisions (cont'd) It happens more than you'd think. I've been paging her, but she hasn't called back. The lights again, storm still raging. Halfway into getting her coat off, Claire has second thoughts, but continues nonetheless. Gaines is taken off-balance, his private space violated. Claire finally looks up at Gaines, smiles. beat. Unless you wanted to eat alone. No. It's fine. Gaines scrapes the last of his eggs off the plate. Claire sits with two pieces of toast, untouched. She takes the scrap of the newspaper he tore off, looks at it. What do you have against The Family Circus? It's evil. Besides that. Okay. Location mostly. Bottom right corner, just waiting there to suck. It's the last thing you read, and it spoils everything you read before it. You could just not read it. hate it, yet I'm uncontrollably drawn to it. Are you going to... He points to her toast. She slides it over. He slathers on a thick coat of jelly. Do you know what like about you? 8/26/98 Revisions What? I'm asking. don't know. It's not your face, because you're only medium cute. think what it is, is you might be the first non-fake person I've met here. Me. I'm serious. Professional curiousity. What are you on? Ginseng and lotsa caffeine. Gaines leaves money for the check. beat. Claire looks around at the various decorations: a red tree by the door, snowflakes on the window, lights blinking on the wall. 8/26/98 Revisions You know what like best about Christmas? The surprises. It's like, you get this box, and you're sure you know what's in it. You shake it, you weigh it, and you're totally convinced you have it pegged. No doubt in your mind. But then you open it up, and it's something completely different. Bing! Wow! Bang! Surprise! mean, it's like you and me here. She smiles. She has a bewitching smile. I'm not saying this is anything it's not. But, c'mon. This time yesterday, who'dda thunk it? Claire kisses Gaines, pinning him against the wall. Rain against the door. She fumbles with his belt. His hand slides under her jacket, trying to undo her bra. They take a break from undressing to kiss harder. Reclining on the steps, Claire tries to push his jeans down with her toes. Her foot gets caught in the chain from his wallet. Her butt slides down a step. They laugh. Her hand hits something hard -- his gun. It's tucked into his jacket pocket. As they start to work up a rhythm, Huxley the cat comes down the steps, curious. He brushes against them, unnoticed. Finally, he (stopping) How did you get out? He looks to the top of the stairs, where a is watching them. It's Victor. 8/26/98 Revisions He has the silver .45 drawn on them. Gaines looks down to the door at the bottom. Vic Jr. is blocking it. They're trapped. Claire looks around, trying to figure out what's happening. Gaines draws a map for Victor on the coffee table. Simon's apartment is around the back -- * the gate's always open. Now, you're going to take Sunset to Hyperion. * As he's talking, we to reveal Vic Jr. by the door, holding * the gun on them, and Claire, sitting on the couch beside Gaines. * At Hillhurst, you have to keep right -- * you want Sunset Boulevard, not Sunset * Drive. * (to Gaines) * Why don't you just drive him there? Maybe * you could help pull the trigger. * Gaines gives her a look. Victor takes the map and folds it. * He hands Gaines back his credit card. Just then, we hear a at the door -- a gentle All * eyes go to look. * the doorknob, someone trying it. It's unlocked. We * to reveal the opener is actually... * He charges right into the room, shutting the door behind him. * Todd, listen, need hide out here. You * won't believe the shit we got into in... * He sees Victor. He immediately reaches for his gun, but * 8/26/98 Revisions is right behind him. He yanks Simon's gun away, then half- * pushes, half-carries him forward, slamming him down Claire and Gaines both scoot back, freaked. Vic Sr. puts the * gun to Simon's head. * Panicked, Simon squirms, trying to look around. His face is * mushed against the glass. * How was your drive? We flew. Victor hands the gun off to Vic Jr., who rests it at the back * of Simon's head. Simon is moments away from execution. * All at once... * HeyHeyHey. Not here, not now. Please no. God! Shit! * This is so not where you want don't wanna die. ** to be doing this. * Do it. * Vic Jr. the gun. Simon At the last moment... * Wait! Stop! You can't do this! * You won't get away with it! * For a brief moment, she has their attention. She points to * herself. * Hello, witness. * (re: Todd) * Witness. What are you going to do, kill * us too? * Gaines looks over, thanks for bringing that up. But Claire * still has the floor. * What is wrong with you people? Do you think this is an effective way of dealing with problems? This fuck shot my boy. * 8/26/98 Revisions ...in the arm. Vic Jr. leans on him, shut up. * (to Victor) So, what? You're going to kill three * people? * (beat, no answer) What do you actually want? Justice. look between all parties. Sitting in the green chair, Simon makes an on his bicep with a marker. He feels for the bone. It's all flesh here, it should be okay. Gaines and the Vics stand around him. In the background, Claire is dubious and horrified. Vic Jr. puts Todd's gun to the Gaines hands Simon a shirt to mop up the blood. Right, great. On some sick level, he's really into this. Vic Jr. gets ready to shoot. Everyone subtly backs away, bracing for the gunshot. Three. Two. One. But there's no bang. * Everyone looks at Vic Jr. He pulls the gun away. * can't. * 8/26/98 Revisions What do you mean you can't? It's hard to shoot somebody * (beat) who knows they're gonna be ** You pull the fucking trigger. shot. It's dif'rent. * It's all right. Really. * Claire rolls her eyes -- this is going to take forever. While * the Vic's argue, Claire grabs her coat and purse. * Where are you going? * gotta get to work. * Todd doesn't want her to leave, but really, what can he say? * Everyone turns to watch Claire leave. * Look, now the girl's leaving. * See you, Claire. * We follow her out the door. As she exits... Be good! In the background, the Vic Jr. is psyching himself up again. * Claire shuts the door behind her. As she's headed for the steps, we hear a She flinches but keeps walking. I'm okay! 8/26/98 Revisions [See Scene 176] Ronna wakes up, a bit at a time, an dripping overhead. We hear carolers in the distance. Her nose crinkles, her tongue finds her lips. Finally a swollen eye opens, looks around. is gathered around the other bed in the room, the father dressed as Santa Claus. Ronna sees the dangling from her arm. She sits up with difficulty, a head rush. She tries to get her bearings, but genuinely doesn't know how she got here. After a beat, she rips off the tape and carefuly pulls the needle out of her arm. It's stopped raining, but the pavement is still wet. Ronna slides her time card into the machine, which down. Ronna ties her apron as she heads to the front, limping a bit. Claire finishes bagging groceries. Looks up to see Ronna coming to open the next register. Hey. Claire doesn't say anything, a pointed silence. Ronna keys in, checks the drawer. Claire returns to her register. Ronna tries to make eye contact, but no luck. 8/26/98 Revisions Okay, real mature. Claire continues to ignore her, turning her back. She straightens coupons, rubber-banding them. Claire. Nothing. beat. Finally... Alright. Mistakes were made. Things didn't go exactly as planned. Claire's eyes -- understatement. But it wasn't exactly a banner night for me, either. Claire stops, disbelieving -- if Ronna only knew. She turns on her, then back to the register, holding it in. But she just has to face her to say... You are constantly using us. Using you? You use me. Come on, if it weren't for me, you would be sitting home every night eating popcorn and watching reruns of 90210. (overlapping) Mannie is your chauffeur, and am... (what is she?) am some chick you leave sitting in an apartment. (overlapping) That is such bullshit. Mannie does not feel that way. Ask him. Ask him! Where is he? Why would know? beat. cold horror crosses Ronna. Remaining calm... 8/26/98 Revisions He drove you here, didn't he? No, got a ride. His car was still in the parking lot when left. Oh shit. Shit! Without even closing her register, she takes off her apron and heads for the door. 8/26/98 Revisions (yelling) Mannie? Mannie? Ronna limps ahead. taxicab waits in the background. Mannie! Mannie! All the alleys look the same. He could be anywhere. stray black cat scratches through a pile of foam peanuts, looking for bugs. Another cat crawls up the body of Mannie, propped against the dumpster. trickle of water drips off the garbage onto his face. The cat licks it clean. Mannie smiles. Mannie! Can you hear me? Yeah! Ronna turns to see Mannie behind her, stretching his neck. He's pale. His eyes are bloodshot. But otherwise, he's fine. You look like shit. The Beast is the only car left. Ronna and Claire circle, looking for the keys on the ground. Calling out... You fucked Todd Gaines? 8/26/98 Revisions No! (embarrased) We made out. (mocking) Made out? Kissed. little. What? Hello! He's a drug dealer. Claire doesn't want this to go any further. Fortunately, just then... Found `em. She shakes the mud and grime off, then throws them to Ronna. Mannie lies back on the trunk, droopy. 8/26/98 Revisions (unlocking passenger door) You might have brain damage from overdosing. Dain brambage? beat. Xavier Kugat. Starts with You shit. She puts him in the car, holding his head like he's a criminal on "Cops." I'll drive. Ronna hands her the keys over the roof of the Beast, sunlight shining off the gathered rain. They take a beat, just the two of them. So, do you have enough money to pay off your rent? And twenty left over. Maybe I'll open a savings account. Claire starts the car. Mannie leans up from the back seat. So what are we doing for New Year's? Ronna smiles. Merry Christmas, Mannie. off across the parking lot, building. 8/26/98 Revisions We to the rave hangar, heading for it, picking up speed. takes us to... We a rave in full swing ahead. The hangar door is open, pitch black inside. We fly in, bringing us to... 8/26/98 Revisions Simon awakes to at the front door. He stands and turns, disoriented, no idea when or where he is. He finally finds a clock -- it's 4:14 in the afternoon. More at the door. Simon half-crawls to the window, looking out to see who's at the door. From this angle, all we can see is the sleeve of a man's jacket. (tentatively) Who is it? He ducks, expecting a hail of gunfire. It's Todd. beat, then Simon finally drops his panic. He keeps the gun in hand as he pulls the chair away from the doorknob and slowly undoes the lock. He leaves the chain on. Looking out through the crack, we see Gaines, alone. Jesus, Todd. Thank God. (undoes chain) You won't believe the shit I've been through... Without a word, Gaines grabs him by the collar and him, one punch to the face. Simon falls in a dazed lump to the floor. We stay down with him as we watch Gaines walk away. Simon blinks and sniffles as we once again 8/26/98 Revisions Adam and Zack scrub the Miata's upholstery with brushes and various cleaners, trying to get the bloodstains out. Zack stops for a moment, watching Adam. Adam looks up, what? Nothing. quiet beat, the first moment of genuine affection between them. Suddenly we hear a We can't tell where it's coming from. Following the sound, Adam finds a mud-encrusted beeper wedged between the seat and the center console. He looks up to Zack, then checks the number. 8/26/98 Revisions These are wild lines to play underneath scenes and Since these scenes are longer than before, we need extra soap opera in the background before we get to Adam and Zack.] Somethin' about it just didn't add up. So last night went back to the pier to do some investigating of my own. Turns out there are two boats named the Princess. Only, one just got back from two weeks at sea -- Sal Dominico's boat. It got me thinkin' -- if Chase really did know Carmen was on to him, how come he didn't tell Lucas, or Gamble, or Myerson? Why would he drive up to Pinecliff by himself? And why would you still have his briefcase? (beat) Answer me that, Danielle. If you have an answer. rises, a scene cut. New leads into... I'm not the man you're looking for. We both know you were on the pier. You saw what happened to Carmen. Don't forget, detective. was cleared of all charges. don't care how many high-priced lawyers you bring in. Eden Valley will never stand for your kind of scum. Go : John Augus