Written by Peter Straughan ...British, fifties, a melodrama. We're looking at an - glamorous, young - but very much in the back ground of the scene - a secretary typing at her desk. sits watching the film, his clothes and the room around him telling us this is England in the 1960s. He is staring raptly at the actress. All my life I've been a Looky- Loo. We are on an extremely handsome staring past us with a dazzling smile. My name's Sidney Young. I'm a journalist...a hack. (Beat) Yeah, that...that isn't me. We right and down to our hero - - thirties, an odd-ball with a knack for getting people to dislike him. This is me at the Golden Globe Awards in this year. That's my Armani tuxedo. That's a Rolex Sea-Dweller 4000 watch I'm wearing. Still in we and see that Sidney is at a table with several other people, all staring raptly past us to the stage which is out of shot. Those people all around me - they're all famous. They're my friends. Beside him sits a beautiful young woman - (20's). That's the actress Sophie Maes. This morning she told me she would let me have sex with her if she won the Best Actress Award. Still in Sophie suddenly covers her face with her hands and begins to stand. She just won the Best Actress Award. Sophie walks out of the shot. Still sporting the fixed smile, Sidney claps in along with everyone else in the room. We away from Sidney past tables of towards an My life didn't used to be like this. We the and find ourselves impossibly looking at... ...a crowd of held back from us by a red rope, craning their necks to see us more clearly, waving, cheering, shouting, cameras flashing... Rain lashes down. reads: "Sidney's Life, One Year Ago. Bafta Awards. London." Looky-Loos. That's what They call you when you stand out in the rain all night just to catch a glimpse of Them going by. - walk down the red carpet, pausing to wave at the fans. used to pretend it was different for me because was getting paid by a magazine or newspaper, whatever. But that's, you know...I just loved watching Them. I'd stand outside looking in through the window and think what it would be like to somehow get inside. But there was only one way to get past the thin red line that separates the celebrities from the civilians. You had to be famous. Sidney stands talking to a young at the security gate. He has a small, ugly on a leash. Babe? Babe Three. Yeah. She looks doubtfully at the pig. Babe was a cute little piglet. Harry Potter used to be a cute little piglet too. What do you want? Tempus Fugits... He hasn't got any How many pigs are coming tonight? Look, was told to bring him, hand him over to the producer, Bob Milton, inside. You want me to leave him here with you, that's fine... No, you can't leave him with me. I've got...Hold on, I'll... She looks around, helplessly. She begins to unhook the red rope. Sidney tries to hide his excitement. If you're positive that you're supposed to... An stalks over. Well, well, Sidney Young. Well, well...clipboard Nazi-type woman. She turns to the standing beside them. The pig doesn't get in. She starts to walk away. What about me? was talking about you. Sidney and the Pig are being "escorted" away from the red carpet by the Security. The Looky-Loos dream is that one day they will somehow get to mingle with the stars. But the Industry can't allow any mingling. Stars have to be kept away from civilians, have to be quarantined, so they don't become normal. Like us. They pass a ravishing walking the other way. She looks curiously at the pig as she passes. Sidney stares after her, longingly. through the doors and into the lobby of the exclusive hotel. But after the awards come the parties - the Miramax Party, the London Records Party and, best of all - the Sharps Magazine Party, so exclusive that there are no pass-alongs, no plus-ones, no press. We find Sidney checking in at the desk. (to Receptionist, How much? only want to stay for one night! Sidney stands in the rising elevator, suit bag in his hand, holdall at his feet. This is where the movie stars can finally relax, secure in the knowledge they are among their own kind. We see the poking out of the zip of the holdall. Sidney turns from the mirror to face us. He is wearing a of white shirt, waistcoat, and bow tie. He is also wearing a and And that is when strike. He picks up a tray of canapés from the bed and looks down to where the Pig watches him from the floor. want you in bed by ten. And no porn. He tosses the pig one of the canapés. Sidney, tray in hand, peers around the corner to the entrance to the hotel's roofed The Older Woman we saw earlier stands at the door, a formidable presence. As we watch she greets an approaching gushingly. Seizing his chance Sidney darts towards the door and, tray held aloft to cover his face, slips through into the courtyard beyond. ...as Sidney emerges from the washrooms, now dressed only in the white shirt and black trousers. He scoops up a passing glass of champagne, checks his moustache and surveys the courtyard - a room full of glamour: tanned skin, diamonds, beautiful dresses, beautiful suits, champagne. He stands surveying the crowd of A-list celebrities in front of him, dazed. You can do this. You belong here. You're a star. You're a big, bright shining star... The room is trashed - furniture over-turned, mini-bar open and broken bottles all over the floor. weird squealing which could almost be human is coming from the bathroom. Hello? Sir? The squealing stops. Is everything alright? The door opens and the Assistant Manager walks in and stands staring around him in horror. Behind him the pig emerges from the bathroom and slips out of the open door, across the corridor and straight into the open lift... Sidney is talking to a very famous and very drunk Hollywood No, when I'm in stay at the Sunset Marquis, when I'm here always stay at the Sanderson. It's, you know, don't feel at home these days unless I'm in a hotel. So what do you do? Oh, I'm a writer. Movie writer. Oh great. Yeah. Got one in pre-production now. You know it's really weird running into you like this because just the other day was telling the producer thought you'd be perfect for the lead. She starts to laugh. No, seriously, you would, because, you know, you have this mixture of intelligence and beauty and fragility that we're looking for and, uh... What's the film? Tits of Fury. She laughs. I'm joking, I'm just...It's a bio- pic. About Greta Garbo. That's why thought of you. You have those amazing cheek-bones and...are they real? Have you had plastic surgery? No. Have you? Me? No, hardly anything. penis reduction as a child, that's pretty much... She laughs again, snorting into her drink. Sidney can't believe this - she likes him! The lift doors glide open and the Pig trots out and around the corner. The Woman is still at the door to the courtyard, berating one of her staff. The Pig sails past them both, unnoticed, and disappears into the party. sits drinking at a table. He slips a little bag of Ecstasy from his pocket and takes one. As the Young Man pushes the bag back into his pocket. The Pig sits at his feet watching as the little bag slips back out and to the floor. The Pig sniffs at the bag... ...still talking. The place is crammed now, and hot. Sidney wipes sweat from his forehead. Oh god, I'm drunk. Are you? I'm so drunk. haven't eaten and... You feel okay? Because my room's just upstairs if you want to lie down or, or loosen any, you know, morals or... What is your name again? Clark. Clark Baxter. He takes a sip of his champagne and his moustache comes loose and hangs limply from his face. How'd you do? The Actress stares at him in surprise but Sidney doesn't notice - he is staring past her to where there is something of a amongst the guests. The Woman is hurrying across the room, hissing into her ear-piece. Somebody screams. Then to Sidney's horror a group of guests scatter in panic and the cause of the commotion is revealed: the Pig charges into view, heading straight for him. Oh, shit... The Pig suddenly skids to a halt and stares at Sidney with hot eyes. The Woman follows the Pig's gaze and spots Sidney. Sarah, get security! Code Red. Sidney Young got in! Who's Sidney Young? Before Sidney can answer the Pig charges. Oh, shit! Sidney turns and legs it. We are looking of a tall grey-haired who stands in the shadows watching Sidney run past. This is his face hidden for the time being. He lights a cigarette with a thoughtful air and watches Sidney's flight, rolling the between his fingers. ...as the Pig catches up with him and lunges at his ankles. Sidney screams, trips and flies through the air, wig spinning free, hurtling straight towards a table of startled celebrities. We - "How To Lose Friends & Alienate People." We hear the opening of David Bowie's Star. As the and song continue we see a protesting Sidney and Pig being escorted by Security through the endless corridors of the Hotel. Titles End. seedy flat in Shepherds bush. Sidney lies in bed reading a newspaper in his underwear. phone is in the next room. Sidney begins to cut out a photograph from one of the papers - Sidney struggling with an irate Clint Eastwood and some Security Men. The phone continues to ring. Will you get that? (Beat) Will you get the phone? Sighing he gets up and scratching himself, stumbles through to... ...which we see is, bizarrely, an - full of an odd assortment of desks, antiquated computers and an old fax machine. The walls are lined with past covers from Sidney's magazine - The Post-Modern Review. One bears a photograph of Victoria Beckham with the title "Posh Spice? Like Fuck She Is." is talking on the phone by the door. The other phone is still ringing. Look, we don't hate celebrities at the Post-Modern Review, okay? We just don't think they should be taking themselves so seriously. For us a celebrity is a text to be deconstructed. Apart from Costner obviously. Sidney edges past him to where a and a histrionic are in the middle of a argument, encouraged by the other members of staff. wouldn't do this the honour of calling it a review. It's a puerile, personal attack in, in alcoholic prose, in which incidentally you manage to misquote both Derrida and Lyotard. am a... Girl. ...an internationally respected academic and... Prick. ...author of a very well received book on the history of culture and a... Fuckwit. (threading his way past) Couldn't one of you answer the phone? As the argument continues behind him he reaches the phone with a bored sitting by it. Will you answer that? What do pay you for? You don't pay me. Just get the phone! The Young Man answers the phone. Post-Modern Review. Sidney, if she doesn't apologise I'm quitting. (to the Large Woman) George can't leave. You'll have to apologise. Why can't George leave? He owns the fax machine. Sidney notices the Young Man is staring at him with a scared expression. What? It's Sharps Magazine. Sidney stops smiling. We're finished. We're not finished. They sue, we're finished. Shut up. (To the others) Will you be quiet! They ignore him and continue bickering. Sidney picks up the phone. Sidney Young. (over phone, gravel This is Clayton Harding. I'm the editor of Sharps Magazine. Sidney is visibly thrown. Ah, Lord Vader. Clayton Harding's swivel chair - all we can see is Clayton's grey hair, his custom-built desk and the enormous office in front of him. He is smoking. As he talks he rolls a between his fingers. saw you at my party, just before you ruined it with your little pig stunt. You liked that? Sure. On his desk we see a few copies the Post-Modern Review - glimpses of stars on the covers - Catherine Zeta-Jones, Orlando Bloom... Clayton's hand sifts one copy from the others and holds it up - the cover depicts - patrician handsome, stern, photo-shopped so that he appears to be headline reads "Clayton Harding - The Editor's New Clothes? Clayton's shoulder's heave with a snort of repressed laughter. (examining the cover) especially liked the part where Clint Eastwood beat the shit outa ya. Sidney lights a cigarette, trying to seem casual. We're not scared of you, Harding. You want to sue, go ahead and sue. It's like Jimmy Stewart said, (a poor Stewart impersonation:)"You sit up there and you spin your little webs and you think the whole world revolves around you and your money. Well, it doesn't, Mr... Mr... Clayton is still flicking through the magazines. Potter. "Mr. Potter..."You go ahead and sue if you want, but warn you, if you strike me down, shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine. An walks in. Clayton looks up. Miss Taylor is here sir. Clayton nods and quickly throws the magazines into a of the desk. Sidney is still talking over the phone, beginning to enjoy himself. Destroy me and a hundred more will spring up in my place - men who care nothing for success, men who cannot be bought, men whose only loyalty is to... want you to come and work for me at Sharps Magazine in New York. Sidney stares to where the Thin Man is trying to get out of the door with the Fax Machine, the Large Woman struggling with him. The two fall to the floor. The rest of the staff gather around them. Fight, fight, fight... Um...could you say that again please? We hear the sound of an aeroplane engine build as we... Sidney emerges from the airport, wearing his crumpled brown suit, dragging his suitcase behind him. He stares around, excited to be here. Sidney drags his suitcase down the quiet street and stops outside an apartment block, checking the address. An elderly Polish lady - - is leading Sidney up the stairs of the building. This magazine you are working for? It is good? It's Sharps Magazine. You know Sharps? It's sort of society, fashion, crime, finance, Hollywood celebrities... Hollywood. Sodom and Gomorrah. Now everybody is celebrity. You take out your breasts, you are celebrity. (eyeing her chest Well, think it depends on the breasts but... In Poland, someone was famous because they had done something...Marie Curie...Pope John Paul... Yeah, they don't make entertainers like that any more... Mrs Kowalski cuffs the back of his head. Sidney is somewhat surprised by this familiarity, having only just met the lady. She opens an apartment door. Mrs Kowalski shows Sidney into the small and cheaply furnished apartment. Sidney's boxed possessions stand in a corner. They brought your things yesterday. Yup, this is good. This is...I can put my drum kit just over there and, uh... She stares at him. That's a...that's just a joke. They're just little...congas. When do you start work? Tomorrow morning. Well, you need to be fresh, make a good impression.(Leaving) Go to bed. Just what I'm going to do... drunken Sidney dances frenetically on a small dance floor made of squares of flashing color, compensating with enthusiasm for what he lacks in coordination. The women on the floor shuffle further and further away from him. Sidney walks down the street, staring bright eyed at the city around him, in love with New York. in a short dress passes him. Sidney ogles her as she walks into a Sidney finds the Sexy Woman sitting at the bar. There is an empty stool beside her. Sidney sidles into it. Kona please. Sidney gestures to the Barman to make it two. He sits trying to think of something to say. The barman returns with their drinks. (raising his glass) Hi, my name's Clark. Clark Baxter. The Woman looks at him without expression. Sidney sips his drink, grimaces. What the hell's that? That's a water sir. Well that's...that's not right, is it? That's not...put a dash of beer in that. young woman has been sitting on the other side of Sidney. This is (20s) smart, attractive, dressed in an elegant but no-nonsense suit. She is writing in a She looks up and notices Sidney. I'm sorry, my boyfriend's sitting there. Sidney gets up and examines the stool. Is he? He's fucking small isn't he? He smiles at the Sexy Woman, hoping to get a laugh. Alison examines Sidney coolly, points to the drink on the bar in front of Sidney. That's his White Russian. He'll be here in a second. Can you reserve these seats? Nope. Sidney sits down and turns back to the Sexy Woman. I'm a journalist. Work for a little periodical you might have heard of called Sharps Magazine? Sidney produces a card and waves it vaguely. I'm the Cultural Editor. Alison takes the card from his hand before he can put it away again. (to Sexy Woman) This is a library card. (Reading it) From Glow-cester... (snatching it back) That's...not that one... (Searching wallet) I've got it somewhere...I just... The Sexy Woman gets up and walks away. Sidney watches her go bitterly. Happy now? Just doing my bit for the gene pool. He produces the of him being held in a headlock by Clint Eastwood. Who's that there with Clint Eastwood? Morgan Freeman? No, in the headlock. You had this laminated? Oh just give it... He snatches the photograph back, catching Alison's glass in the process. Her drink over her notebook - soaking the page she has been writing. Shit! It's okay. It's okay. I've got it. He tries to blot the page with a napkin, smearing the ink. Just...just leave it! She examines the book, furious. Sorry. He tries to think of something to say. It's pronounced Gloucester by the way. Are you going to get off that seat? No. Do you know the meaning of Karma? The curry? (inscribing a circle in What goes around, comes around. The moment is approaching when you will pay the price for being an asshole. When my boyfriend gets here I'm going to put my pacifist leanings to one side and encourage him to take you outside and... Her cell-phone rings. She answers it. Hello? Hi, honey.(Beat) Oh. (Beat) no, no, it's...don't worry about it. I'll see you then. She hangs up, avoiding Sidney's gaze, embarrassed and annoyed. Boyfriend not coming? She stares straight ahead, gathering her things. Listen, I'm sorry. Do you think...? She turns to him. Do you think could have his drink? Alison gives him a cold smile, controlling her temper. She spots a heavily made-up walking past. Bobbie? Hey! You want a seat? I'm just leaving. Thanks. The Woman takes Alison's place at the bar. (to the newcomer) Hello. He slides the over to her. Guess who that is with Clint Eastwood. Alison gives a small smile and leaves. Sidney and the Woman dance drunkenly around the room to the music blaring from Sidney's stereo. The track finishes and they stand gasping for breath. I'm gonna powder my nose. Why don't you put on something a little more romantic? She staggers off down the hall. Sidney, giddy with excitement, searches through some LPs and puts one on his old turntable. It's Ace of Spades by Motorhead. He staggers around, playing air-guitar for a moment. The music is suddenly switched off. He turns to find Mrs Kowalski standing beside the record player, staring grimly at him. Mrs Lebowski... Kowalski. You know what time it is? The music blaring, your door open... (trying to seem sober) Was it? Fuck. mean, shit. Sorry. just...met an old friend and brought them back... The Woman staggers back into the room, her back to us. She is She is also surprisingly muscular. ...for a little... He notices the woman. His gaze drops to below the waist. ...penis. Mrs Kowalski turns and takes in the view. Nobody moves. hung-over Sidney wakes up in his bed, light streaming through the window. He examines his reflection, psyching himself up for his first day. You can do this! You can do this! He hums the fanfare from the Rocky theme. Sidney walks into the room, still humming the theme tune, shadow boxing. He opens the blinds and turns to the couch. The "Woman" wakes up from where she has been sleeping on the couch and gazes blearily at Sidney. Quick coffee Bob and then you've got to go. We hear the opening of Brian Ferry's version of The `In' Crowd as we... As the song continues we see Sidney swagger down the busy sidewalk towards us. He is wearing sunglasses and a T-shirt emblazoned with a photograph of Keanu Reeves and the caption "Young, Dumb and Full of Cum."The T-shirt is riding up a little over his belly. This is my city. He stops at a gleaming chrome entrance and stares up at the Heywood Building towering above him. As the song continues Sidney, still swaggering, is escorted through the formidable looking security by a thin and chic The entrance hall arches above them, a vast and impressive cavern of chrome and glass. This is my building. Sidney leans nonchalantly against the wall of the lift examining the Chic Assistant and two stunningly beautiful who are in conversation. Sidney manages to catch the attention of one of the models and flashes what he believes is a rakish smile. In return he receives an icy glare. These are my models. The Chic Assistant leads Sidney down a curving, red carpeted corridor, past a chrome wall inscribed with the giant logo of the magazine. They reach a set of double doors which the Assistant opens for Sidney... And this... Sidney walks through into... Harding swings around in his chair to glare at us, a cigarette in his mouth. ...is my Boss. What the fuck are you wearing? The song grinds to an abrupt halt. Sidney loses a quantity of swagger. He examines his T-shirt. You like it? brought you one. He takes a T-shirt from his satchel and hands it to Harding. Thanks. Casually he flings the shirt out of the open window behind him. Next time you come here dressed like that, you follow the shirt. You understand? Sidney nods dumbly. Sit down. How was the flight? Good. Thanks for the business class tickets, Clay. Harding regards him gravely. That was a mistake. And don't call me Clay. Oh. Well, if it's any consolation got downgraded anyway. That is some consolation. Sidney notices that the copy of The Post-Modern Review is on the desk - Clayton Ha! That was just a little, uh... as it happens I'm a big fan of your earlier, funnier work. Snipe Magazine that was...that was really good. Harding stares at Sidney. Yeah, you've...you've actually been a big influence on me and really think together we can inject a bit of that Snipe spirit into this magazine. Now I've got a few ideas that I'd like to... You think you've arrived, doncha? Well hate to break it to you, but you're only in the first room. It's not nothing, don't get me wrong, but there are plenty of people in this town who never made it past the first room. After a year or so, maybe longer, you'll discover a secret doorway at the back of the first room that leads to the second. Eventually, if you're lucky, you'll discover another doorway back of the second room that leads to the third. He gazes at Sidney through narrowed eyes. There are seven rooms in all. You're in the first, I'm in the seventh, and doncha forget it Sidney has been listening with a frown of concentration. So...if make it to the Seventh Room - will become a true Jedi Knight? Harding exhales smoke and puts out his cigarette. Which brings us to the subject of your sense of humour. had a look through your "magazine" here. What'd you think? Clayton swivels in his chair and stares thoughtfully out over the Manhattan skyline. Oh, thought it was...kinda snarky. And bitter. And... witless. Sidney digests this. Clayton seems lost in thought. Finally... I'm going to try you out in the Spy Section. Sidney is hurrying to keep up with (40's) as he strides down the corridor. Lawrence is Canadian, handsome, one of the golden boys of the magazine and arrogant with it. Other pass them as they walk, heads down, expressions serious. The place is a model of quiet, professional industry. (glancing at Sidney's Well, Sidney. We've only just met but already perceive am in the presence of a rare comic sensibility. Thanks. know your Hi-jinx gave you a certain notoriety back in Olde England but things are going to be a bit different here. Harding wants me to be your Rabbi, show you the ropes. Are you aware of what we do at Spy? You photograph famous people when they're drunk? Spy is the nation's window onto High Society. The Looky-Loos read us because...well, They Weren't There. The Glitterati read us because we tell them They Were There. For this system to work we have to know where There is. So...when we go out to clubs and things...would that, would that be on expenses or...? This isn't a vacation. It's a vocation. Maddox sweeps around the corner into an open-plan office area. Fact-checkers and Assistants buzz around. When we do go out you're going to have to wear something more suitable. Okay. What do you mean by suitable? Maddox gestures at Sidney's body. Something that covers all of this up. He starts to check messages on his desk. Sidney, trying to seem at ease, stares at a black and white on the wall. Is that Mussolini? (Beat.) ) No, Sidney, that's Richard Heywood. The owner of this magazine. Oh. Looks a little like, uh...(pointing to the child in the photograph, smiling) Who's this funny looking kid? Is that his son? Maddox stares at him. That's his daughter, Elizabeth; now my wife. materializes like a halo around Maddox's head. It reads: Do Not Fuck with Me. Really? Well, she's very...isn't she? Really, very... Someone walks up behind Sidney. Miss Olsen here takes care of the gallery openings, book launches and other intellectual fare. Can you find our new rookie something to do? Sidney turns to find Alison behind him, eating an apple. She eyes him coldly. hear the Cultural Editor's job is up for grabs? Alison sits working at her computer. Sidney appears and perches on the edge of her desk. Listen, seeing as how I'm going to be sitting just over there, don't you think we should try and put last night behind us? No. Get off my desk. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be doing. (Beat) Are you going to help me out? Okay. Which way did you come in? Sidney stares at her. Alison takes some contact sheets from her desk and shoves them at him. Chris Blick exhibition opening. Caption it. Now get off my desk. One of the magazines gorgeous Fashionistas - - walks past. Hi! Hi, Ingrid. Ingrid stares at Sidney's outfit, thrown. (a wolfish smile) You going to introduce me? This is Clark Baxter. (Noticing Ingrid's gaze) He's English. (That explains it) Ohh...right. Actually it's Sidney. Sidney Young. Clark Baxter is my alias. Why do you have an alias? He uses it when he's trying to pick up transsexuals. Nice to meet you. She walks on. take it you knew about Bob and didn't tell me? Alison inscribes a circle in the air with her finger without looking up. Sidney is on the phone. He is staring at some contact sheets. Hello, is that the Parsons Gallery? Yes, it is. This is Celia Parsons speaking. This is Sidney Young from Sharps Magazine? We're running some photographs from your opening of the Chris Blick exhibition, and just need to caption them. was wondering if you could help me identify some of the people? All right. Thanks. So...Chris Blick. Man or woman? What? Is Chris Blick a man or woman? Are you sure you're calling from Sharps magazine? Yes, am. Tell me Stanley, why have they given you this assignment if you don't know who one of the most famous artists in America is? don't really know. He's a man. Okay. Is he an old man? He's an older man, yes. (staring at a Okay, I've got two old men here - so is he the fat one? You do realize that Clayton Harding is a personal friend of mine? What's that got to do with anything? Right. She hangs up. Beat. Sidney looks around, hoping no-one was listening. He re-dials. Parsons gallery. Is he the one with the wonky eye? She hangs up again. Sidney, coming back from lunch, gets into the lift eating a Another of the magazine's Fashionistas - - gets into the lift and tries to hold the door open for an approaching friend. The doors swish shut, Anna pulling her hand out of the way just in time. The lift rises. It's fashion sensitive. If you're not wearing Prada it'll take your arm clean off. Anna stares at this strange man with the burger, baffled. But am wearing Prada. The lift stops and she gets out. Alison gets in, sees Sidney and winces. She takes out a book and pretends to read. The lift begins to rise again. Through it's glass doors we see the different floors passing, different publications - each a hive of sober, hard work. Sidney stares at them. This isn't what expected. Alison recoils slightly. What did you expect? don't know. The Algonquin circle. Dorothy Parker. Martinis. Quips. Look at them. Not one of them is drunk. It's called being a professional. You should try it some time. There's something you should understand. I'm not really one of you. By "you" do you mean "human?" mean the glossy posse. Bunch of Zombies, writing about "Pets of the Stars" but acting like they're working for the I'm here to shake things up a bit. Where are you from? Not that it's any of your business, but I'm from Port Huron, Michigan. Right. Small town girl. (Hannibal Lector impersonation) bet you could only dream of getting out. Getting anywhere - yes, Clarice? Getting all the way - to the (Dropping the impersonation) Take my advice, don't go taking this celebrity fluff seriously. For a moment Alison is speechless with anger. You...you...arrogant... The lift stops and a enters. She is expensively dressed, wears Chanel dark glasses, an expression of granite and an air of superhuman froideur. Alison exchanges the slightest of nods with her and stares tensely ahead. Only Sidney, busy chewing, is oblivious to the plunge in temperature. For a moment there is only the soft whir of the lift. Then Sidney begins to choke on some burger. He wheezes for a moment, gagging. The Woman stiffens slightly but shows no other sign of having noticed the revolting noises coming from behind her. Alison closes her eyes. Sidney gives a violent cough and a chunk of chewed burger and coleslaw flies out of his mouth and lands on the back of the oblivious Woman's Prada jacket. Sidney notices and raises a tentative hand to brush the offending item away. Before he can move Alison silently takes his wrist in a vice-like grip. Alison is haranguing Sidney. Are you insane? That was Lawrence's wife, Elizabeth! Her father owns Sharps! That was her? The Mussolini baby? He stops. could go back and tell her I'm... No! Listen to me - you do approach Elizabeth Maddox, you do talk to her! Don't even make eye-contact with her? Do you understand? Am supposed to be afraid? Yes. don't know the meaning of the word fear. I'm sure there are many words you don't know the meaning of! She walks on, shaking her head in disbelief. When think of all the people who would kill to be where you are. And you lumber in here, spitting food, haven't got the brains God gave a mollusc...why did Clayton hire you? Snipe Magazine. What? When Clayton left college he started this little magazine called Snipe. Fantastic. Took aim at every self-important celebrity in town. Completely fearless. It was like my magazine but twenty years earlier. That's why he's hired me. am the young Clayton Harding. He looks at me and sees his glory days. His glory days? Sharps has won fourteen National Magazine awards and increased its advertising pages by more than 60 percent since he took over. He's paid millions of dollars a year. He lives in a Bank Street townhouse, and weekends in the Hamptons. Clayton Harding is one of the lynchpins of the media-industrial complex. Sidney stops to examine his reflection in a window. Yeah, but don't worry. think might still be in time to save him. The phone is ringing. Sidney walks in from the bedroom, changing into his old brown suit. The answer machine kicks in. (over answer machine) You've reached Sidney Young. I'm sorry but my answering machine is out of order, so the voice you are hearing is actually me. The machine Sidney smirks at his joke and is reaching for the phone when we hear the caller - an older man, an upper-class English accent. (over answer machine) Sidney? Are you there? Sidney stops in his tracks, something complicated and fearful crossing his face. Sidney? Are you there? Sidney tiptoes back out of the room. If you're there Sidney, answer the phone. We hear the opening of Fly Me To The Moon by Julie London Sidney sits in the car beside Alison and Maddox, staring out the window, entranced by the bright lights as they pass by... The rooftop swimming pool of a hotel. Flowers everywhere, including in the pool. Guests mill around drinking. We find Sidney working his way through the throng to where Alison stands. There's a couple of hundred grands worth of food here and swear I'm the only person eating it. You want some? Alison recoils. Sidney does a little nerdy dance to the music as he eats. This place is amazing. It's wall to wall totty. Wall to wall what? Totty. Babes. Sexually attractive women. Do you mind? What? Maddox joins them. man passes, nods respectfully at Maddox. Look at that. All night people have been treating us like we're royalty. In London, the journalist's motto is "Everybody hates us and we don't care." Well, now you're one of the High Priests of what's Hot and what's Not. So what were you two talking about? Sidney was just marvelling at the abundance of "Totty" here. Uh-oh. don't think Miss Olsen approves of you, Sidney. Sidney watches some beautiful women pass, dripping diamonds. shouldn't be here. get thrown out of places like this. This? This is a McDonald's. hate disease parties. (Off Sidney's puzzled look) Fund- raisers. Someone's All of the guests automatically check their cells. An walks over - she's a little drunk. Lawrence Maddox? Oh my goodness... Long time. Maddox examines her coolly. Rachel! Lawrence barely bothers to conceal the fact he doesn't remember her. Rachel. How are you? Well, I'm just wonderful. Wonderful. How are you? Lawrence smiles and looks around him without answering. Rachel tries again. Funny should run into you. I've just done this great little film called Five Boroughs and it's you know, low-budget, first-time director but very, uh, moving and... Hey, maybe you could do a little...? handsome passes by. Maddox instantly turns away from Rachel. Angelo, good to see you. Rachel hovers for a moment, embarrassed by her abrupt dismissal then slips away. Sidney watches her go, feeling for her. You know that was Rachel Petkoff? She's a fantastic actress. Hasn't done anything for years, but, in her day... I'm sure. Seriously, I've heard about that film. think she's going to make a come back. We should get there first, do a profile or something before everyone else... Maddox isn't listening. Instead he greets a fat, angry- looking This is wearing his customary Vincent! Great to see you. Children, I'd like to introduce you to Vincent Lepak, enfant terrible and in, my opinion, the most exciting new director in American cinema. Vincent nods, frowning, looks around. think this is the worst fundraiser I've been to in my whole life. It's a rat fuck, isn't it? Sidney walks away. ...standing at the parapet, smoking, staring out over the city with red eyes. Sidney appears beside her. Excuse me? Aren't you Rachel Petkoff? Rachel turns to look at him. This is sort of embarrassing but... He holds out a napkin. Could have your autograph? Rachel, suspecting she is the target of ridicule, looks around to see if there's an audience. I'm a big fan. Is that so? Absolutely. must have seen everything you've been in. Those episodes of The Love Boat and the Bionic Woman? The Song Birds, In The Night...I've even seen your first ever appearance. The Twilight Zone - House of Mirrors. Right? Right... My all time favorite? Day Too Long. (He means it) You were really great in that. Rachel stares at him. She hides her emotion with a bright smile. What's your name, honey? Sidney Young. She takes the napkin and pen, her face glowing. Sidney Young. I'll remember that. ...holding court to Maddox, Alison and some of the Glitterati. Sidney joins them, eating more food. You look around and it's all shit. No-one is making movies that are fucking worthwhile. I'd have to disagree with you, Vincent. Vincent looks at him, displeased. You're making movies that are worthwhile. Vincent accepts this with a curt nod. This is what I'm saying. You have to inspire yourself. am my role- model. want to be me... He stares angrily around, handing his empty glass to his waiting assistant who immediately replaces it with a full one from a passing tray. Sidney watches him with dislike. Greatest film ever made? Excuse me? What's the greatest film ever made? (To Alison) Go on. Have a guess. Well, that's...I don't think there is one single film that... Have a guess. Yeah, have a guess - what is the greatest film ever made? don't, uh...well personally love La Dolce Vita but... Incorrect. Con Air. beg your pardon? Uhuh, Con Air. It's got everything. Malkovich for your acting chops, Nicky Cage for action, Buscemi for comedy, John Cusack for the Gays. It's a smorgasbord. The group study him, trying to work out if this is irony or idiocy. Maddox is staring daggers at him. An extremely thin, fashionably dressed woman smiles at Sidney. don't think we've been introduced? Mister Young, this is Eleanor Johnson, Queen of New York. Eleanor this is Sidney Young. He's from England and he's our very own Idiot Savant. Without the Savant. Well, it's always nice to have fresh blood at these things. (To Maddox) Which reminds me, I'm here with Sophie Maes, want you to meet her. New film, The Suffragette coming out, the buzz is A-mazing. The release is tied in with the roll-out of the Reebok campaign, and now Louis Vuitton's on the line. This train is leaving the station Lawrence. So, you're a publicist? don't really like that word, Sidney. What should call you? You can call me Eleanor. She stares past him, across the pool. There she is. They turn to see a young woman standing across the pool from them. This is - a natural beauty, statuesque, no make-up, hair simply pulled back. Sophie tries to walk around the pool to join them but finds she can't work her way through the crowd. She turns to her right but finds her way similarly blocked. She hesitates for a moment and then with a shrug climbs down into the pool, the water up to her chest, and begins to walk through the floating flowers towards them. Sidney stares at her, Alison notices this with some contempt. Gradually everyone notices Sophie and stops to look. Having reached the other side, Sophie ascends the pool steps, laughing, her dress clinging to her: Venus rising from the waves. The Photographers appear, snapping merrily away. Oh, this one will go far. Sophie, still in her wet dress, Eleanor and Sophie's are striding through the hotel's corridors, on their way out. Maddox, Sidney and Alison are with them. (on cell phone) Where's the car? What's it doing at the back? Forget what said. want the car at the front. Now. Sidney finds himself walking alongside Sophie and Maddox, trying not to stare at Sophie's breasts. just think it's terrible the way we're still exploiting animals. That's why, you know, won't wear fur or leather, won't wear make-up, I'm vegetarian. I'm with you... Sophie turns to him with a vague smile. won't eat anything with, you know, eyebrows. He snickers nervously. Or if it can chuckle. won't eat animals that can chuckle. I'm sorry, can't understand your accent? Nothing, just, uh...So you're an actress? Have seen you in anything? don't know. Have you? No. (Trying again) So you haven't won any Oscars yet? No. Because would certainly vote for you for best supporting dress! Huh, huh, huh.... haven't been nominated for anything. No, I'm just...I'm saying you look... They have reached the front entrance of the hotel. Eleanor steps between them. Are you ready dear? The front doors glide open to reveal a waiting outside. As Sophie steps outside there is a sudden roar of photographers shouting and the night sky blazes white as - the group framed in the entrance-way - blinded by the glare, squinting. Only Sophie has her eyes open, smiling, looking like a star. The Paparazzi are still crowding around the group as they make their way to the waiting car. We're going on to the Circle Club. I'll see you tomorrow. Okay. Good night. Maddox slips his jacket around Sophie's shoulders. Aren't you cold? I'm from Canada, land of ice and snow. They get into the car. Sidney tries to follow them. Budge up. Where are you going? I'm coming to the club. Sorry, you're not on the list. small - - on Sophie's lap snarls at Sidney. See? Even Cuba says so. Maddox closes the door and the car glides away, Sophie kissing the dog on the nose. The Paparazzi hurry back to the entrance as another celebrity emerges, leaving Alison and Sidney staring after the car. That's... that turns my stomach. Pawing her like that. He's old enough to be her father. No he isn't. Yes he is. started producing sperm when was thirteen, so you know, technically... For your information he wasn't pawing her! He was just doing his job! In case you haven't noticed Sharps has to have a star on the cover every month. And most of those stars are clients of Eleanor's. So do not piss her off. She's a flak. Hacks don't take orders from flaks. And don't think you can call that "doing his job." The man had no blood left in his upper body... Will you...? Oh, and next time you want to do the hilariously ironic love Con Air skit would you mind...? wasn't being ironic... ...would you mind not involving me, especially in the presence of Vincent Lepak who happens to be very important. Yeah, could tell by the way he was allowed to stay up past his bed time. The car disappears into the distance. They watch it go. Do you think she'd go out with me? Who? Sophie Maes. You think she'll go out with me? No. Girls like Sophie don't date journalists. As far as she's concerned, you're the help. What do you know? lot of these starlets are lonely. They spend their time looking for a man. Alison starts to walk away. This is New York, Sidney. Women only date men who are successful... I'm going to be successful. (as she goes) ...and tall. Sidney sits in front of his computer reading the on-line New York Post Page Six. story on the previous night is accompanied by a large picture of Sophie in her clinging dress. Above the picture is the title Venus Envy. Sidney stares at the picture, entranced. Alison sits at her desk, watching him with contempt. Maddox appears beside them. Have you seen this? She's everywhere. An walks over with a for Maddox. From Sophie Maes. (reading the card) "Thanks for a great night." What a sweet kid. Oh, Sidney, about last night - word of advice. Don't talk to the celebrities, okay? Sophie said you made her feel uncomfortable. He walks off with a slight smirk. Sidney glowers after him. Sidney walks down the corridor. He slows, his expression changing suddenly. - Elizabeth Maddox is walking down the corridor towards us, face set. Sidney keeps on walking, staring to one side of Elizabeth. As they draw level, the heel of one of Elizabeth's shoes snaps off and she lurches sideways, colliding with the wall before sprawling onto the floor in front of Sidney. Sidney hesitates. He notices Alison watching with baited breath from the other end of the corridor. For a moment nobody moves then Sidney steps over Elizabeth's prone form without a word and keeps on walking. Alison gives a sigh of relief, nods in approval and walks on. Clayton heads a monthly staff meeting. rather smug Maddox is just finishing a pitch. ...so Brad's people finally got back to me and they've agreed. We've got the whole afternoon, before the shoot. People clap. Harding nods approvingly. Good work Lawrence. Okay, well, if that's it for... He starts to get up. So, was thinking, Clay... Clayton, pauses, frowning. Sidney turns to the room, cocksure. Paris Hilton. do a profile on her as if she's this complete recluse, this hermit...(laughing) try and track her down and, you know, "Who is the elusive Paris Hilton and why is she so publicity shy?" He laughs for a moment. No one joins in. That's first room stuff, Sidney. And call me Clay one more time and see what happens. Harding stalks out of the room. Blushing, Sidney stares after him, nodding vaguely. As he gathers his notebook he becomes aware of the smirks on the faces of Maddox and the others as they leave. Alison sits with her notebook and pen. Behind her some of the magazine's glamorous Fashionistas - and - are examining some clothes. No, I'd love these but I'm so fat couldn't... Get out of here! You look totally rexy. Alice? Alison hides her irritation with a smile. Alison. Tell Vicky she looks rexy. Rexy? Anorexic. Well...you do look like you could do with a few more pounds. Oh god, that's so sweet. By the way, post-shoot clear out. Got some Gucci pants here that are way too big for us. You wanna try? (another tight smile) No, thanks. She looks up as Sidney sits heavily beside her, stares at her with puppy-dog eyes. Alison tries to ignore him for a moment. don't mean to be rude Sidney but...what the fuck do you want? Listen, you know how things work around here. How am going to get something in the magazine? Alison stares at him. thought all this "fluff" was beneath you? It is but...things have changed. What's changed? Look, know people think I'm a bit of an idiot and maybe haven't started off too well here, but want...I want... He seems so awkward that Alison begins to soften a little. want to have sex with Sophie Maes. (Beat) Before Maddox does. Alison's expression turns to disgust. You're loathsome, you know that? know he's got a head start on me but I'm going to win her back. Once get my hooks into a girl, they never get free. Like ring-worm. She gets up and stalks out. Sidney glances through the glass partition and sees walking past. The gloves are coming off. We hear the opening of Brigitte Bardot's Moi Je Joue as we... Sidney is pitching to Clayton in the elevator. Okay. Celebrity Trash Cans. The contents of celebrity trash cans are revealed and readers have gotta guess who the trash belongs to... Five bottles of Jack Daniels, a court order, and a copy of Mein Kampf? Mel Gibson! (getting out the lift) First Room, Sidney. First room. small group of pass the immense line of hopefuls waiting outside the club and are ushered inside by the at the entrance. Sidney walks confidently up, pretending to talk into his cell. The Doorman stands in his way, impassive. Still talking Sidney turns and walks away as if nothing has happened. Sidney standing with a in the elevator. He takes a from his wallet and shows it to her. (pointing at the snap) Guess who that is with Clint Eastwood? Morgan Freeman? No, not...why's everyone say...? There! In the head-lock! Sidney pitches to a closed door in the office. He is holding a on which is drawn a decorated with the heads of various It's a Shag Tree. It illustrates all of the sexual pairings of Hollywood's top stars and how they interconnect... From under the door slides a piece of paper on which is written First Room. We hear a Sidney approaches the Doorman , takes a ten dollar bill from his pocket and hands it to the Doorman. The Doorman crumples the bill up and throws it away. Without a word Sidney begins to walk away. He comes back and picks up the crumpled note and then heads off again. Harding is eating lunch at his desk. He looks up and finds Sidney staring down at him with puppy-dog eyes. Beat. Harding sighs. If give you an interview will ya leave me the fuck alone? Sidney smiles. The song ends. Nathan Lane shakes hands with Sidney as he sits down. Nathan Lane. Nice to meet you. Great to meet you Nathan. I'm a big fan. love that rat thing you played in The Lion King. Actually he's a meer cat. (absently, checking his Uhuh... Now, I've been doing some research and think you're probably quite a private man. Am right? Well... Which is fine, but today, think it would be great to get behind the mask. Uh, don't think there really is a mask as such, and don't wanna be a pain, but what really wanna talk about is the new play, keep it about the work, you know? Is that okay? Absolutely. Of course. So, first question - are you Jewish? Nathan stares at Sidney. don't see what the relevance of that is. Okay. Next question. The rat thing - that's gotta be Disney's first gay animal, right? So, was wondering - are you a homosexual? Beat. Nathan looks like he might hit Sidney. Clayton glares at Sidney from behind his desk. What did say to you? What...? What did say to you? just... What did say to you? Don't upset anyone. Don't upset anyone. was just trying to...probe. You wanna probe become a proctologist, okay? You can't ask musical comedy stars whether they're Jewish or gay. From now on just assume they're all Jewish and all gay, okay? Sidney is on the phone. He has been idly applying magic tape to his face, contorting it into a grotesque grimace. The headline of a magazine open in front of him reads: "Everyone Loves Lord: Why British Titles Drive New York Women Crazy." I'd like to apply for an American Express card please? (Beat) Hon. Sidney Young. (Beat) As in Honourable. (Beat)It's a British title. Across the desk Alison watches him with contempt. The Queen? Yeah, know the Queen. Just fill in the form will you? Sidney suddenly notices Sophie Maes and Eleanor Johnson walking towards them. Sophie looks more than before. She is holding her Chihuahua, Cuba, which is dressed in a tiny coat. Sidney We hear a as he yanks the tape off his face. (in pain, under desk) Oh, fuck...! Hey! Cuba! He pets the dog, who greets him enthusiastically. He likes you. Well, I'm one of the Friends Of Cuba. He laughs, Sophie smiles, not getting it. Alison seems immersed in some paper-work. So how's it feel to be a star? No, don't! It's so embarrassing! That picture's everywhere now. And had no idea the dress was so see-through! And people are talking like it was some kind of stunt. Such a cynical age. Hello Sidney. Embarrassed, Sidney gets up from under his desk. Hello! Didn't, didn't know you were coming in...? Lawrence is taking us to lunch at Cipriani. Oh great. That's great. Lawrence? Could leave Cuba here? He doesn't like Italian food. Of course you can. He can stay in my office. Sidney? Fetch Cuba a bowl of water, will you? Sidney stares at him. (forcing a smile) Of course. Eleanor is getting a cup of water from the cooler. Sidney joins her, waiting to fill the dog's bowl. That is a lovely ring. Where is that from? Sidney looks at the wedding ring he wears on his little finger. It was my mother's. She gave it to me. Oh, you Sweetie. That is very, very...(dismissing the topic) So, listen...You've met Vincent Lepak haven't you, Sidney? Uhuh. He has a new movie coming out soon and Lawrence is over- stretched as it is. How would you like to write a story on him? Alison, at the photocopier nearby, listens. Sidney smiles, filled with hope. story? Absolutely. That would...I'd love to... Well, great. Maybe we could get together and discuss the angle? Okay. (Beat) What do you mean? Well, I'd need to know how we're going to present Vincent, check the story, so on. You want copy approval? Any stories written about my clients need to be in their best interest, that's all. If things work out with Vincent we could maybe talk about a follow up story on Sophie? What do you think? Alison listens, her face registering her distaste. Sidney looks over at Sophie, struggling with himself. Finally... I'm sorry, Eleanor, don't...I don't work that way. Alison stares with surprise at Sidney. He just went up in her estimation. Sidney dear, think of it like this: you write about one of my clients, you are borrowing some of their "star-light" to help sell your magazine. All I'm saying is quid pro quo. Sidney is unable to hold back a snicker. Their star-light? Eleanor's face hardens. Sidney watches Sophie, Maddox and Eleanor as they walk towards reception. Sidney cracks open the door and peers inside. Cuba sits in the middle of the floor, staring at him. He emits a low growl. Sidney slides into the room. Hello Cuba. I'm Uncle Sidney, come to see how you are. You wanna play? You wanna little play? He takes a out of his pocket and holds it up for the dog to see. Fetch! He tosses the ball in the air. Cuba runs after it and trots back, stumpy tail wagging, the ball in its teeth. That's it! That's it! He strokes the dog. We're gonna be best pals aren't we? You're going to like me more than that prick Maddox, aren't you? Fetch! He tosses the ball again which promptly bounces off the wall straight out of the half open window. No! Cuba is already running towards the window... Sidney's yell slows and distorts as we move to Sidney springs forward, leaping onto the desk and then in one bound onto a by the window, sending it rocking slightly forward. Cuba, bounding forward, jumps into the air... Sidney just manages to slam the window as... Cuba bounces off the glass with a yelp and drops to the floor. Sidney heaves a sigh of relief. Then a on the tilted filing cabinet slides forward and drops with a Silence. Sidney stares down to the floor. Cuba? Sidney stands at the lift holding a bulging bag. (waiting for the lift) C'mon...C'mon... Alison walks past, sees him and does a double-take. (seeing her coming) Shit, shit, shit... That's my bag. I'm just...just borrowing it. I'll bring it straight back. What are you talking about? Give it back. She reaches out to take the bag. Sidney holds on desperately. Stop it! Give me the... She tugs violently, pulling the bag open. small lolls out. Alison freezes staring at it. Silence. Oh my God. It was an accident. Oh my God. was just trying to make friends. Please don't tell her. Please don't tell her. Cuba? Cuba? Startled, Sidney darts into Maddox's office. As footsteps and voices approach Sidney tugs wildly at Maddox's window, trying to open it. Alison follows him in. What are you doing? You can't...! He jerks the window open and empties Cuba out of it, slamming it shut just as Sophie, Eleanor and Lawrence walk in. Alison, have you seen Cuba? W-What? She darts a glance over to where Sidney stands with his back to the window, gazing at her pleadingly. From behind him comes a faint creaking sound. Sophie's dog! Have you seen him? Sidney hangs his head, awaiting the coup de grace. Uh...no. No idea. Sidney stares at her in amazement. Behind him Cuba's body appears at the window, rising into view on a Window Washer, stands at the other end of the cradle, bobbing his head to the music in his headphones. Alison stares at the dog in horror while the others talk, oblivious. Don't worry, he couldn't have got very far. Cuba? Cuba! Cuba trundles on up to the sky. Clayton stands at the window. He is There is a knock at the door and Sidney walks in. Clayton? Have you got a minute? Clayton lights a cigarette, stares out of the window. Sidney comes in. Did they find that rat yet? No...Not yet. think maybe he got out the building? Sidney hovers. Congratulations on the Man of the Year thing. How was the lunch? don't know. Thousand dollars a plate, all could taste was ass. I'm kissing their ass, they're kissing my ass. (Beat) get this dream sometimes. Someone's set fire to the building - Heywoods - Sharps magazine - the whole thing, it's going up in flames. My analyst thinks it's an anxiety dream. never tell him how happy am watching the fucker burn. Sidney isn't sure what to say. Finally... What do you want? Sidney takes a deep breath. want to do a story on Vincent Lepak. Not a puff-piece. Something funny, but with teeth. The kind of thing Snipe would have done. Everyone's treating him like he's a genius and he's an idiot. Clayton notices the beside him and opens it. He stares at the rows of blue shirts hanging in there. He takes an armful out and examines them. Look at these things. How'd get a closet full of blue fucking shirts? Um...I don't know. don't know either. This is an office for Christ's sake! Why've even got a fucking closet? He drops the shirts. Do it. (he can't believe it) Do it? Fuck it. Yeah. Do it. He's an annoying little prick. Go take him down. This is your shot. Thanks Clayton! You're my little Hit Man. I'm your little Hit Man! Go do it! Okay! He scuttles out. He ducks back around the door. You could call me The Jackal! Out. Okay! He ducks back out again. Sidney is waiting in the lobby. slightly spaced approaches him. Mister Young? Yes? I'm Sophie Maes' assistant. I'm afraid Sophie isn't here right now. (looking past her) Look know she's in. I'm not a stalker. just know she's upset about losing her dog and... She isn't here. Well, can at least check that she got my present? Okay. Did you send the flowers? Flowers? Yeah,'cos she doesn't get enough flowers, does she? No, sent her the fish. The Young Woman looks suddenly nervous. Oh. Gold-fish. In a bowl. Did she get them? Yes, but...they were dead. All of them? Yeah. It was kinda shocking. Were they dead when you sent them? Sidney stares at her. What? No, they were... Who sends people dead fish? The Mafia? Alison sits at the bar, staring at her notebook, a pen held in her hand. sits on the bar beside her. Sidney slides onto the stool beside her. She looks up and sees he is holding a glass bowl of water with three dead fish in it. My God, you're like a serial killer. This wasn't me. (Beat) laid him to rest. Cuba mean. took him over to... don't want to know. Alison checks the door, looking for someone, a little uncomfortable. Okay. (Beat) Well, just...I just wanted to say...about not telling them...I really appreciated it. It was good of you and, and...you know...not many people would, uh... He stops, tongue-tied. Alison takes pity on him. It's okay. Why didn't you? Alison sighs. You don't need my help to screw up here, Sidney. mean, the only things you make are mistakes and stains. The arrives, stares at the bowl of fish disapprovingly. Can help you? (following his gaze) Just a couple of straws please. Stony-faced, the Barman walks off. Despite herself, Alison smiles. Sidney smiles back. He notices Alison's on the bar. Can ask you something? How come you've always got the notebook? Is it a diary or something? Am in it? It's...it's a novel I'm working on, alright? Wow. Go ahead. know. I'm a walking cliché. No - a novel, that's...that's pretty impressive. You're writing it by hand? Yeah, it...I don't know. It keeps it separate from the magazine work. Makes it seem special. He stares at her. You're full of surprises, Sister. Suddenly he notices the White Russian beside them. So...you waiting for your boyfriend? Uh, yeah, so... What's he do, the mystery guy? Is he a hack too? Actually he's a poet. Really? What's he look like? What? Just most poets you see aren't really good-looking, are they? Spend their time stuck in a room, end up looking like Golem. Is he...? He's very handsome, thank you. Right. You know what don't understand? You're desperate to get a story in the magazine - so why wouldn't you play ball with Eleanor, write the puff-piece? resent being bribed to gush sycophantically about a star, okay? choose to gush sycophantically. Alison stares at Sidney trying to figure him out. It's okay anyway. Clayton's given me a story. I'm on my way. Well, that's good. Sidney smiles back at her. They look at each other...it's almost the start of a Then suddenly on the above the bar, a begins. Distracted Sidney turns to watch - it's Sophie Maes' new film - The Suffragette - Sophie, a glamorous Emily Pankhurst... Sidney looks back to Alison but she has turned away, suddenly awkward. Okay, well...better get going.(Leaving) You take my advice, you'll get yourself a boyfriend who's going to show up once in a while. He leaves. Beat. Alison stares at the empty stool beside her. Clayton is rounding up another staff meeting. Sidney sits trying to contain his excitement. Which makes it...a half page left. Lawrence? Any ideas? Yeah. Rachel Petkoff, fabulous sixties actress, one of my all time favourites. Just made a wonderful movie called Five Boroughs. think she's poised for a come-back and think we should get there first, do a profile. Sidney stares at him in disbelief. He looks over to Alison who avoids his gaze. Sounds good. Let's do it. Okay that's it people. Uh...Clayton? What? Did you read my story on Vincent Lepak? Clayton frowns down at some papers, feigning distraction. What? Oh, yeah. That's...that's not going to work. Sidney can't believe it. Clayton gets up to leave. Oh, and for those who haven't heard, Alison is going to be running the Spy section from now on as Lawrence here has just gone up in the world. He is replacing Greg Roberts as Deputy Editor. Lawrence smiles modestly as the room applauds. Sidney looks like he is going to implode. Maddox passes Sidney in the corridor. Sidney glares after him. Suddenly... Rachel Petkoff? One of your favourite actresses? You'd never fucking heard of her! That was my idea! Lawrence stops and turns back. So it was. You have any more good ideas don't forget to bring them to my new office. He is about to walk on but remembers something. By the way, there've been complaints about you skulking around the water-cooler, trying to talk to women. It's inappropriate behaviour. What? You spend half your life chatting up the staff! When do it it's called flirting. When you do it it's called sexual harassment. Consider this an official warning. won't tolerate sexist behaviour. He walks off. Sidney glowers after him. Lawrence is holding a meeting in his new office - half a dozen heads of departments sit around drinking coffee. Lawrence sits behind his desk, enjoying his new authority. know that wasn't Greg's way of working but Greg isn't deputy editor any more. am, and I'm making changes. There is a knock at the door and Sidney walks in with an attractive in a long coat and dark glasses. What? Uh, Lawrence? This lady's been looking for you? (to the woman) Can help you? Are you Lawrence Maddox? The new deputy editor? Yes? Well, I've just come to say congratulations on your promotion. Thank you. I'm sorry, you are...? I'm your present. The Woman produces a Beat-Box from behind her back and switches it on. She drops her coat to reveal underwear and stockings underneath. Maddox stares in frozen horror as the dances over to him, removing her bra. Very Well-Dressed Middle-Aged Woman knocks on the door and enters. Hey Mrs Harding. Two Impeccably-Dressed Little Girls follow Mrs Harding into the room. Oh my God! So adorable! (to the Little Girls) And this is the Fashion Department. [To Ingrid] Where's Mr Maddox now? Oh he's down the hall. Room 217. The staff are staring transfixed as the stripper gyrates her breasts, whirling (with mock horror) Uh, Lawrence? This is...this is sort of inappropriate isn't it? Will you please... His words are muffled by the bra the stripper drapes over his face. Gleefully, Sidney dances in the background. He produces a camera and starts to snap away. Oh God, this is...this is awful... The Stripper, who we suddenly realise is in a blonde wig, whips off his/her panties. There is a collective gasp from the room. Sidney can't stop laughing. Suddenly he notices everyone in the room is now staring at the door. He turns to see Mrs Harding and her girls standing, shell-shocked, in the doorway. Alarmed, Sidney side-steps in towards Bob. Bob, impressive breasts bared, stands staring back at us. Sidney, in the absence of anything else to shield him with, is The rest of the staff stare at us, rabbits caught in headlights. After a beat Lawrence peers around Sidney, a rictus smile on his face. Hello, Mrs Harding. Girls... Sidney sits waiting, obsessively cleaning his hand with a wet-wipe. Through the glass partition we can see Clayton and Eleanor Johnson in the office. They are apparently discussing a mock-up of a new cover for Sharps. After a moment Eleanor comes out of the office and sweeps past Sidney without a glance. Clayton appears in the doorway. Get in. Sidney sits in front of Clayton. didn't know it was Take Our Daughters To Work Day. didn't even know there was a Take Our daughters To Work Day. Shut up. (Beat) You know, when told my wife I'd hired another Brit, she was excited. She still thinks you're all like something from Pride and Prejudice. But you Sidney ...you're like a British person born in New Jersey. (Shaking his head) Why did hire you? Sidney stares at his feet. Suddenly... don't know - why did you hire me? had an attack of nostalgia. It's passed. Like gas. What was wrong with my story? What? Why did you kill my Vincent Lepak story? It wasn't good enough. Plain and simple. It wasn't good enough? We don't do hatchet jobs here. It isn't a hatchet job! This opening quotation - "It's only too easy to catch people's attention by doing something worse than anyone else has dared do it before..." Who are you thinking of here? Vincent or yourself? He's a talentless, pretentious little twat who thinks cinema began with Tarantino and someone needs to say it. And you told me to do something with teeth! You said... I'm trying to run a fucking magazine here! Sidney stares at him, angry and disappointed. free press is the last defence against the Tyranny of Stupidity." Save me your tin-pot philosophy, okay? It isn't mine. It's yours. First issue of Snipe. Oh, grow the fuck up, will ya! You're not Robin Hood and you never were. You bitch about famous people for the same reason bitched about them. Because they got invited to the Party and you didn't. Well you're at the Party now so quit bitching and do your job! You're on your last life here, you understand? One more fuck up like today and you're gone. Won't you have to run a decision like that past Eleanor first? For a second Clayton looks like he might throw his ashtray at Sidney. Then he controls himself. Get out. Sidney crosses to the door. (he can't help himself) Looks like was too late to save you after all. He walks out. Sidney walks back through the magazine's open plan area. stop whatever they're doing and watch him pass in silence. Then, slowly, one of them begins to Someone else joins in. Then someone else. Soon they're all clapping. Someone gets up on their desk, then another... Sidney smiles faintly then... out of Everyone around him is working as always, paying him no attention. We are through Magazine Staff, celebrities, politicians and children as they mill about the lawns of the sprawling mansion, enjoying the Fourth Of July celebrations which are in progress. Clayton greets guests - the perfect host. We find Sidney, wearing unfashionable shorts, socks and shoes. He is talking to Alison. You hired a stripper? didn't "hire" him. Bob did it for a favour. thought you wanted to be a success here? do! It's just...(ruefully) It wasn't me. It was Clark. Alison laughs. The famous alter-ego? How long's he been hanging around? Since was a kid. Anytime something got broken, or the bathroom got accidentally set on fire - it wasn't me. It was Clark. (Beat.) The weird thing is, he kind of took over. How old were you? don't know, twenty, twenty one... Alison laughs. Well, let me tell you, if only you could get rid of that Clark, you could be a real winner. Clayton's not going to print anything write. I've been on salary for six-months and I've written precisely one hundred and seventy five words. On a dollar- per-word basis, I'm the highest paid writer in the history of this magazine.(Beat) He's not going to renew my contract. What did you expect, Sidney? Vincent's one of Eleanor's clients. told you. They're Untouchables. thought Clayton was different. really did. (Beat) The only thing I'm good at is pissing people off, and he won't let me do it. (Beat) "My glory walks hand in hand with my doom." (Off her look) Troy Troy who? Troy, the movie. He stares around him at the other guests. Everybody hates me here. You're the only one who'll talk to me. You cornered me. (a little embarrassed) No, mean it. You're the person who's been most, you know... uh...abusive to me. Alison laughs again. They smile at each other. You want another drink? (beat, smiling) Alright. I'll have a beer. Sidney walks off. Sidney is getting a drink at the bar that has been set up in the grounds. Suddenly he stiffens, watching as Sophie Maes, looking spectacular, walks over to where Maddox and his circle are talking nearby. Sophie, my darling. Looking ravishing as always. Whilst the two are engaged in kissing cheeks, Sidney takes a credit card from his wallet and drops it surreptitiously by Sophie's feet. You know what read the other day? Your collection of poems - The Hollow Heart? Man, they're great. Sidney reacts to this, feeling troubled for some reason. You write poems? In another life. The is handing out drinks. And a White Russian? Right here. Sidney stares at the drink, feeling like he's just been punched in the stomach. Maddox notices him. Well, well, if it isn't Sidalee. Maddox notices the card at Sophie's feet. (picking it up) What's this? "Hon Young". That's...that's mine. But your name's not "Hon". (reaching for it) It's short for "Honourable". (whisking it away) As in, "the Honourable Sidney Young"? Can please...? (holding it out of So how come it says "Hon Young"? They made you sound like some Korean medical student. The people gathered around laugh. They screwed it up. Please. Sidney baby, you don't wanna go faking a British title to impress Sophie. It's the Fourth of July. (Handing back the card): We're celebrating the fact that we threw a bunch of British aristocrats out. Sidney smiles tightly. Suddenly... Why don't you shut up, Maddox? Beat. The others look to Maddox to see how he will react. Maddox smiles dangerously. Careful Sidney. Remember - if it wasn't for us you'd all be speaking German. You're Canadian. If it wasn't for us you'd be speaking French. Sophie giggles. Maddox doesn't like this but before he can answer Sidney walks off. Alison is about to walk into the bathroom when she hears the sound of muffled sobbing and stops. She peers through the slightly open door. - Elizabeth Maddox stands at the mirror, staring at her reflection. For once she is not wearing her dark glasses and we can see her eyes are red raw from crying. Elizabeth walks out of the bathroom, dark glasses back in place, her face a mask once more. She walks off. Alison slips out from a nearby room and watches her go, miserable with guilt. Sidney is staring over to where Alison and Maddox are standing by some trees, deep in conversation. Maddox is tossing nuts into the air and catching them in his mouth. (muttering to himself) Choke. Choke. He puts his fingers to his temples as if to channel telekinetic powers. Choke...choke... Sidney realizes Harding's wife is passing with her two daughters. Hello, Mrs Harding. Lovely party. With a look of alarm she shepherds the girls away. tall older man dressed in white with a long white beard appears next to Sidney. How are you? Sidney nods gloomily. Has anyone ever told you before that you have an unusually dark aura? Yup. You should walk with bare feet as much as possible, ground all that negative energy. Sidney examines him. So...you're a wizard or...? I'm a spiritual healer. You can make a living doing that? Oh God no. I'm a dentist. They stare at the party for a moment. You want to do some coke? Um...no, thanks. Rachel Petkoff stands talking to some other guests. Sidney notices her and walks over. Hey! Hello again? Rachel smiles at him distantly, clearly not remembering him. Hello. (Turning back to the others) No, Lawrence is a wonderful writer. really felt like he got to the heart of me. Sidney snorts. Rachel turns back to him, faintly irritated. I'm sorry, have we...? Sidney. Sidney Young. We met at... Another walks past Sidney and kisses Rachel. saw Five Boroughs the other day and wept! Sidney hovers for a moment, ignored, and then walks away. Dusk. The guests have gathered on the lawns to watch the fireworks. There are oohs and aahs as the rockets light up the sky. Suddenly... In-ger-lernd! Puzzled the guests turn to where a drunk Sidney is standing on the balustrade of the porch of the house. In-ger-lernd! In-ger-lerrrrrrnd! He spots amongst the crowd, watching him, puzzled. You! Grant! Come on! In-ger- lerrrr... With that he slips from the balustrade and crashes into the shrubbery below. Sidney limps through the trees, dabbing at a scratch on his face. He passes Alison who is sitting on a tree-swing, lost in thought, swigging absently from a bottle of wine. You okay? What? said are you okay? I'm fine. Yup. Fine. (Beat) You? Yup. (Beat) No, actually. hate my life so, you know, I'm gonna get drunk. Sidney nods, vaguely. They stand in awkward silence for a moment. Then... Right...See you... He walks off. Beat. He walks back into frame suddenly. What? How the...You...having an affair with Maddox! mean...Maddox for Christ's sake! The Man With Hidden Shallows! Jesus! mean, used to think you were...I was starting to...I mean, at first thought you were a pain but then started to think...but mean...Maddox? How can you live with yourself? Alison stares at him, pale, blinking back tears. couldn't. That's why I've broken up with him. Well, that's no...that's, you know...(Beat) You broke up with him? Alison walks off. Beat. She walks back. Which leg did you hurt? This one. Alison kicks the leg. She walks off again. Sidney lies beside the pool staring darkly into the water and nursing the beginnings of a hangover. We hear faint music and laughter from where the party continues in the house behind. He notices the reflection of the starry sky in the water and reaching out gloomily to hold one of the stars. The reflection dissolves into ripples. When the water settles Sophie Maes reflection stares back at him. She's drunk and a good deal of the movie star mystique seems to have evaporated. You know what? There's something very damaged about you. Sidney stares at her, not sure what to say. Huh... Sophie lies down beside the pool, plays with a strand of her hair. Like an animal that's been hit by a car or something. Like a deer or...like a pig maybe? When they walk funny and the other animals keep away from them. Little limpy pig. I'm drawn to sick animals. That's why picked Cuba - because he had like psychological problems? (Her eyes well with tears) Poor little Cuba. Where is he now? Huh... She wipes her eyes, rolls onto her back. Jesus, I'm wasted. Are you wasted? I'm wasted. Sidney watches her. Congratulations on becoming incredibly famous by the way. Thanks. What's it like? What's what like? Everything. She rolls her head to look at him solemnly. Weird. It's happening so fast and...it's like it's got nothing to do with me. It's like I'm not even really here. She laughs softly. Am here? You're here. She turns back to look at the stars. I'm so hungry. Would you...would you like me to get you some food? Are you crazy? There might still be a photographer around. They lie in silence for a moment. You know what would be nice though? Some coke. She rubs her face, close to falling asleep. Probably just as well haven't got any. Coke always makes me so horny. Sidney opens his mouth but cannot speak. ...through the groups of people chatting outside the house. (out of breath) Wizard! Wizard Dentist Man! Need Wizard Dentist Man! Sidney has virtually dragged the Dentist out of his car. He is handing Sidney a wrap. will never, never, never forget this. Thank you! He starts to hurry away. Alison is weaving unsteadily towards the driveway. Sidney hurries past then slows and stops, staring back at her. Alison stands rooting in her purse for a tip to give the who is holding open the door of her car for her, the engine running. What are you doing? None of your business... You can't drive. You need to go and sleep this off somewhere. Firstly, you are a stupid asshole and hate you and Secondly... Secondly... She muses on what she was going to say next. Sidney looks over his shoulder, imagining Sophie waiting for him. Secondly... Yeah, okay. Listen, you try driving in this state you're gonna kill yourself. Who'd care if did? Beat. Suddenly she bursts into tears. Surprised, Sidney stands, uncertain what to do. I've got to go. Got to go. Sidney holds her to stop her falling. He stares back at the pool and then down at Alison. Sidney is driving. Alison is still drunk. thought had it all figured out. - get the hell out of Port Huron, come to New York. - do the serious journalism thing to pay the bills while you know, write the novel. Win a Pulitzer. - don't know what was. Then took the internship at Sharps and met Maddox and he was...he was so...and before know it I'm writing, you know, Ten Tips for the fucking Metrosexual and pretending this is what wanted but this what wanted! And that's...that's why hated you... didn't know you hated me. ...because you were right about me. I'm a ghoul, writing fluff! You're not a Ghoul. You're a Zombie. Alison leans her head against the window. But he isn't the person you think he is, okay? Maddox. That's just a front. He thinks he's let himself down by giving up the poetry and he's unhappy. And the marriage is a sham, mean... just...I couldn't end it. just couldn't and... (can't take anymore) Look, don't need to hear this. Fine. She begins to root through her bag. Need a cigarette. Where are my fucking cigarettes? You don't smoke. Oh yeah. She looks at her reflection in the window. Do you think have low self- esteem? Am afraid of a real relationship? Do think an affair is all deserve? mean, okay, he's handsome and successful and he's great in bed... Could you just be quiet? He realises she has started to cry. When told him couldn't see him any more...I don't know if he cared. love him and, and don't know if he cares! Sidney watches, moved. Well, I'm...I'm sure he does. He's probably just not very good at expressing his emotions. I'm so fucking sophisticated! mean there's not even a little bit of Port Huron left, right? I've got the haircut and the job and I've got the parties and I've even, I've even got the affair because that's what sophisticated fucking people do! Alright. Alright. Don't, you know, get snot everywhere... Oh G-God... What? Alison lurches down out of sight and is sick on Sidney's shorts. Sidney is driving through Manhattan, the windows down. Alison is asleep. Alison? What's your address? (Beat. Shaking her) Alison? Alison snores loudly. Sidney sighs. Sidney staggers up the stairs carrying Alison over his shoulder. Alison is moaning. Shut up will you? You'll wake the old witch up. He stops suddenly and turns. Mrs Kowalski glowers at him from the doorway. Sidney freezes - a sickly smile on his face. Did...Did we wake you? An appears behind Mrs Kowalski staring at Sidney. Long Beat. Hello Dad. Sidney, Mrs Kowalski and Sidney's father - - sit drinking coffee. Richard has an absent-minded air, wears a somewhat shabby jacket. Sidney seems to have almost physically shrunk in the presence of his father. Some music is playing in the next room. Alison dances drunkenly past the doorway, wearing Sidney's jacket. (as she goes by) Love this song... The three stare after her. Sidney coughs. She, uh, she isn't actually a prostitute. Oh good. Alison dances back into the room. Sooo, Sidney's dad. Good to meet you. I'm Alison. I'm from Port Huron. (To Mrs Kowalski) And you must be Sidney's mom? No am not! Oh, okay. My dad married again too, so that's cool. (To Richard) You wanna dance? No thank you. Okay. Where are my cigarettes? (feeling in the pocket of the jacket) What is that? She produces the wrap of coke that the elderly man had given Sidney. Oh, hey, is that....? She stops herself. Everyone stares at the wrap. think it is probably cocaine. Sidney closes his eyes. It wasn't actually for me. was going to give it to this young actress... He realises this isn't helping and trails off. So, hey, visiting your boy. That's nice. You must be pretty proud of him, huh? think you should lie down Alison. He's doing just great at the magazine. Alison ruffles Sidney's hair clumsily. First we all thought he was kinda creepy because he was always hanging around the water-cooler, hitting on women... Really Alison, think... But think that was pretty much an act. So, Mister Sidney, whatcha doing here? Please, call me Richard. I've written a little book so I'm doing a few talks. book! Hey - I'm writing a book. What's yours about? Don't tell me - it's a thriller, right? No, nothing so interesting I'm afraid. I'm a philosopher. Philosophy? Really? Have you written any... Alison stops dancing, stares at him, something occurring to her. Oh my God...Richard? Young? You're Young? (To Sidney) You...you didn't say... Sidney avoids her eye. I'd love to hear what you think of the book if you have time to read it. Alison snorts with laughter. What would Sidney know about philosophy? Well, he does have a Masters in the subject. Alison stares at Sidney. She breaks into a snorting laugh again. You're shitting me! Sidney? He...he likes Con Air! She stops laughing, hit by a sudden wave of nausea. don't feel very well. Mrs Kowalski stands up. Come on. It is time you went to bed. (To Sidney) You can sleep on the couch. Okay. Better go before find out something else don't know about Sidney. Mrs Kowalski turns to Richard. It was a pleasure to meet you Lord Young. Alison stares at Sidney who smiles weakly. Richard and Sidney sit alone. You should have said you were coming. That would have required you answering one of my calls. I've been pretty busy. Which reminds me, was talking to a publisher friend of mine the other day. He mentioned that they were planning a series of introductory texts on philosophers. wondered if you would be interested? have a job, dad. Of course, of course. picked up a copy of your magazine at the airport. Sidney stiffens a little. Most enjoyable. (Beat) particularly liked the young Hollywood actress who said she'd like to start her theatre career "somewhere small, like London or England." Why've you always got to do this? It's...it's... It was just a joke Sidney... Actually it's not. Because you're saying that what do for a living is worthless and... don't think it's worthless. just think, in your heart, you know you could do more with your life than... More? Sharps is one of the most respected magazines in the world. There's a million hacks who would kill to be where am now. You know who interviewed recently? Nathan Lane. don't know who... you don't know who that is! You don't know who anyone is! You thought Brad Pitt was a cave in Yorkshire! But most people do know who they are, okay? And most people wouldn't think that a journalist who gets to mix with stars like that was a, a disappointment! don't think you're a disappointment Sidney. I've never thought that. Silence. Richard stands and picks up his coat. I'm sorry. didn't mean to upset you. Sidney watches his father, struggling with himself. Things haven't really been that great. don't know what it is. (Beat) I'm not... getting ahead. Richard stops, turns back to his son. Beat. If you're not happy... No. I'm fine. know can make it. Einstein said "Try not to become a man of success but rather to become a man of value." Sidney doesn't answer. The young lady next door... Alison? She wouldn't have anything to do with your desire to stay would she? What? No. We're just friends. saw the way you looked at her. Sidney considers this, knowing it's true. She doesn't feel that way about me. New York women don't date losers. suppose not. But Alison is from Port Huron, isn't she? Sidney stares at him. Sidney peers into the room to check Alison is okay. She lies asleep on the bed, moonlight bathing her face. She looks beautiful. Sidney stands staring at her for a moment and then tip-toes back out of the room. Sidney is cooking, humming, happy that Alison is here. Alison walks in, feeling dreadful. don't remember very much but I'm so, so sorry. I'll get myself together and get going... Why? No, you're all right. It's...it's nice to have the company. Oh God...your father. And that woman. Mrs Kowalski? Don't worry about it. The last woman she caught me with had a penis, so you know...you're a big step up. Thanks. She notices a black and white photograph of a glamorous on the shelf. We recognise her as the woman on the at the beginning of the film. Who's that? That's my mother. No way! Yeah, don't take after her... Was she a model? Actress. Wow. Movies? Some. British, small parts... Is she... No, she died when was young. Without thinking he fiddles with the ring on his finger. Must have been pretty cool having your mom in the movies. Yeah, suppose. used to see her on the every now and then when was growing up. Sort of weird. He carries the plates over to her. Here we go! English fry-up. Perfect hangover cure. Sidney puts a plate of bacon, eggs and sausages in front of her. Alison stares at it, going green. Suddenly she darts from the room. Sidney is tidying. He upsets Alison's bag from the couch and its contents spill onto the floor - the is amongst them. Sidney stares at it, hesitates and then, unable to resist, opens it up and starts to read. Alison walks into the room. Sidney looks up guiltily. Sorry, was just...uh...(He can't think of an excuse) ...rooting through your private possessions... Alison sits on the couch, feeling too ill to be annoyed. like the opening. You do? do. Can read the rest of it? Believe it or not, I'm a pretty good editor. don't know. don't even know if I'm going to bother finishing it. "Keep true to the dreams of thy youth." Alison examines him through narrowed eyes. Is that from Troy again? Schiller. She puts her things back in her bag. I'll jump in the shower and then really will get out of your hair. Sidney watches, not wanting her to go. Oh, forgot...I got you a present. He hands her a bag. Surprised she opens it and takes out a It's the Nino Rota sound-track to La Dolce Vita. was just walking past this music shop on the corner and saw it. thought it might cheer you up. Alison is deeply touched. That's...I don't know what to say. (Beat) haven't got a turntable. Oh. (Beat) Well, you can always come here to listen to it. Sidney takes the record and puts it on the turntable in the corner of the room. He selects the finale music - it's funny and sad, glamorous and romantic... They listen to it for a moment. Sidney starts to dance a little. He cha-cha's over to her and holds out his hand. Are you kidding? could throw up on you again. C'mon... Alison reluctantly gets up. They dance ironically. Alison laughs a little. Gradually they get more into it, enjoying the music - a man in shorts and a woman in pyjamas, cha-cha-chaing, a summer breeze wafting in the through the open windows behind him... Some weeks later. Alison sits at her desk, trying to work. She looks up and catches Maddox watching her with soulful eyes from across the room. She looks quickly away, unsettled. Sidney sits at his desk surreptitiously watching her, Autumn. Rain lashes against the window. Alison drinks coffee. Ingrid and Anna are examining a rack of clothes behind her. Ingrid is holding up a dress. Hey, Alice? Versace. You like? I'm good, thanks. Honey, everyone needs to change their look every now and then. Especially if they have a new man in their life. What are you talking about? Sidney is just about to enter the room. Well, that English guy is always hanging around you these days, right? Sidney freezes, listening. Alison blushes fiercely. Tell me it isn't so. Of course not. Thank God. Can you imagine? He's such a creep. Sidney listens sadly to the women laughing inside. Alison stares at the Fashionistas, annoyed by this. Oblivious, Anna holds up some trousers against herself. These are gorgeous, but I'm just too fat. Oh don't be crazy! Alice? Is Anna fat? Not at all. Why, she's so thin could just take her little spindly body and snap it over my knee like a dry fucking twig. Thanks. Oh, and for your information Sidney Young has got more going for him than most of the men in this town. She gets up to leave, the others gawping after her. Sidney gives a slow smile of wonder - she likes him! Suddenly he realises Alison is about to walk out the door and catch him listening. Panicking he opens the nearest door and runs in, falling straight down a short flight of stairs and out of sight. Alison walks out of the room and away, oblivious. - On Sidney, staring at us. Hey Alison, was wondering if you wanted to...(Beat. Starting again) Hello there. Listen was wondering if you wanted to see a movie or...a meal...or...(Beat, starting again.) Alison. You wanna go on a date? We see he is staring at his reflection in a mirror. He slips in a pair of and smiles toothily. The is in full swing - guests dancing in fancy dress. Sidney, dressed as Dracula, threads through the crowd. He spots Alison on the other side of the room, dressed as He starts to make his way towards her, a little nervous. He passes and Vincent wears all black and his shades. like your costume Vincent. I'm not wearing a costume. Oh. They walk on. Idiot. Wanker. Sidney continues through the crowd to Alison. He puts his Dracula in. Haven't we met somewhere before? That's why don't go there any more. They smile, but Alison seems a little nervous. I've been looking for you actually. There's, uh, there's something need to... (Mumbling through his Me first. Listen was wondering if you want to go to the movies or maybe for a, uh.... What? can't understand what you're saying. Sidney pulls the plastic fangs out. Sorry. was just saying... Maddox appears and gives Alison a glass of champagne. He kisses her. Back in a minute. He walks off again. Sidney stares dumbly after him. wanted to tell you. Lawrence has left his wife. We're going to be together. Officially. She watches for Sidney's reaction. Well...that's...that's brilliant. Yeah, so...maybe he does care after all, right? Yup. They stand in an awkward silence, watching the party. dejected Sidney stands washing his hands. Maddox walks in behind him. Hello Sidney. Someone said you'd come as a Count but thought I'd misheard. Sidney doesn't answer, turns to leave. So Alison told you we were getting together right? Yeah. Yeah. Should have done it long ago but, you know me - just not very good at expressing my emotions. Right? He watches Sidney's reaction, smirking. You must be happy for her, what with you being friends... Sidney blushes. Oh Sidalee...I thought as much. Did you really think you and Alison...? Things really haven't worked out too well for you here, have they? Ah, well. You gave it your best shot. He walks out. Sidney stares after him, burning. Rain pours down. Eleanor and Vincent climb into a limousine and close the door. Sidney runs up. Wait! Eleanor wait! The window glides down. Yes? Let me do the profile on Vincent. don't think so. The window begins to slide up. Sidney hangs onto it. You get full copy approval. It'll be like you've written it! The window stops. Eleanor stares at him, considering. Sidney looks past her to Vincent. Vincent - think about it, think how humiliating it will be for me. I'm begging you. Vincent leans over, stares over his shades at Sidney. (Beat, enjoying this) You don't look like you're begging. Beat. Sidney kneels down on the side-walk beside the limousine. The rain pours down on him. The limousine drives away. Sidney stares dumbly up at something across the street. On the building across the street is an - in a gold ball-gown and make-up, hair coiffured in classic forties Hollywood style. As we watch she Underneath is the slogan - I'm Here... Sidney sits in front of Clayton. Lawrence Maddox is no longer working for Sharps. Seems Elizabeth got sick of him screwing around and kicked him out. She kicked him out? Richard Heywood doesn't seem to like the idea of employing an ex- son-in-law. So he's gone. So's Alison Olsen. Sidney stares at him. Don't worry about Maddox. He's already lined up something with Gotham Magazine. I'm gonna need someone to hold the fort at Spy. Strictly on a temporary basis, you understand? One more thing. Eleanor Johnson rang this morning, wondering if you'd like to write a profile on Vincent Lepak. Sidney stares at him. don't know how you did it but somehow you've made it into the next room. We hear the opening of Pretty Vacant by the Sex Pistols as we... As the song continues we see Sidney interviewing Vincent, complete with shades. Vincent is wearing a crown, being photographed on a throne. Sidney and Eleanor are watching. Eleanor is going through Sidney's copy, crossing lines out with a red pen. Sidney watches. Sidney, Eleanor and a Photo-Editor are looking at the photos from the shoot. Eleanor is pointing out a blemish on Vincent's face. ...as we watch the blemish disappears. Sidney buys a copy of Sharps and flicks through it until he finds what he's looking for - a four page feature entitled Vincent Lepak - Long Live The King. He stares at his byline at the top of the feature. An elegant apartment building. Sidney is being shown around a chic apartment by a Realtor. Sidney is amongst the room full of writers and editors, pitching to Clayton who nods approval and passes on to the next item. Sidney and Eleanor are talking with an Sidney is wearing a smart suit, fawning in a suitably restrained manner. Sidney is interviewing the Actor, laughing sycophantically at something he has just said. Sidney sits at his desk, looking very much the part now in another expensive suit, talking on the phone. His desk is crowded with is handing over a to him. Sidney opens the box to reveal a 4000 Sidney stares at the watch. Sidney is drinking champagne amongst the Glitterati, talking to a Producer. Simon Cowell walks past and high- fives him. Sidney throws back his head, laughing at something the Producer said. Sidney sits in the steam room, wrapped in a towel, sweating. Slowly the steam envelops him until he has disappeared. - looking as cool as he can. Alison sits alone reading Sharps, staring at Sidney's photo in the "Notes on Contributors" page. She smiles, then glances up, her smile fading. Maddox is walking towards her, drunk and sour faced. (noticing the magazine) Well, well...little Sidalee. feel like a proud Papa. Listen, can't stay. Anderson wants me to go to some photographers exhibition. Hot new talent blah, blah... Right. (Beat) How hot is she? Who? The new talent? Do you think you could drop the little wife routine? It's kind of in bad taste. Alison stares at him sadly guess you're right.(Quietly) What goes around comes around. Maddox is about to say something but changes his mind. I'll see you back home. He is about to leave when he notices Alison's notebook on the table. And will you stop carrying that thing around with you? It's kind of embarrassing. He walks off. Sidney is with Eleanor and Sophie, who now looks every inch the movie star. Sophie's going to get a Golden Globe nomination for best actress. Wow. That's fantastic.(Beat) But...the nominations haven't been announced yet? That is correct so we have absolutely no way of knowing whether or not she will be nominated. (Beat) So, if she is nominated we want Sharps to do a feature. Someone to cover the whole lead up, unrestricted access, the trajectory, the building of this unique brand. I'm going to have a logo. Here's the deal. Sophie wants you to do it. Sidney stares at her and then at Sophie, stunned. You can be my bitch. Merry Christmas, Sidney. This is a cover story. think a little celebration is in order. Snow falls. Sidney climbs out of a limousine with Eleanor and Sophie. The women breeze past the Doorman and into the club. Sidney hesitates on the thresh-hold, staring up at the sign above him as if it's a magic portal. Sidney walks in. surprisingly small, ultra A-list club, chic and ironic Christmas decorations. Sidney walks past celebrities and beautiful people. He's arrived. Sidney stands with Kevin Bacon playing Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon. People stand around watching. Okay, uh...Clark Gable. Go! Clark Gable to Vivien Leigh (Gone With The Wind), Vivien Leigh to Marlon Brando (Street Car Named Desire), Marlon Brando to Robert DeNiro (The Score) Robert De Niro to Kevin Bacon (Sleepers)! The crowd cheers. very drunk Sidney stands in a toilet cubicle with a doing coke. Sexiest philosopher? Uh, tricky, but I'm gonna say Nietzsche. Huge moustache. The Tom Selleck of Nihilism. Um...most evil philosopher. Okay. Good. Evil genius philosopher...Hobbes, proto-Nazi, Heidegger - actual Nazi, Hegel - twat. Basically your H's... Most Hollywood philosopher? Uh...Bishop Berkely. What'd he say? Esse est percipi. What does that mean? If they `aint looking at you, you don't really exist. Oh honey, tell me something don't know... Sidney stoops and snorts a line of coke. Sidney, giddy on champagne, coke and success is dancing with Sophie. He's at the centre of the world. The doorbell rings. Sidney wearing a silk dressing gown wanders through the room from the bedroom and opens the door. Alison stands outside, smiling at him. Hey. Hey. Nice robe. Thanks. It was a gift. Ralph Lauren. Who from? Ralph Lauren. did a piece. Beat. He still hasn't invited her in. just wanted to say heard about you getting the promotion. Congratulations. I'm happy for you. Thanks. How's things with you and... Good. Fine. Everything's ...uh...I'm working for this little literary magazine. It's not the New Yorker but... (awkward) So, I've left you a bunch of messages... Yeah. I've been pretty busy. thought so. Alison stands awkwardly for a moment, smiling, then turns to go. Okay, well... How's the novel coming along? Oh, well...still working on it. Well...keep at it. believe in you. Alison smiles, touched. never gave you these. He takes some papers from a shelf and hands them to her. Alison looks at them - the are titled "Notes On Alison's Novel." There's a She laughs. You know... Sidney? Alison looks past Sidney to the bedroom door where the Fashionista stands in her underwear. (a little wave) Hey, Alice. Sidney looks at her and back at Alison. He gives a little laugh. (half joking, half How did it all go so wrong? Alison smiles, gives a little wave and walks away - before he can see how upset she is. Sophie and her entourage, including Sidney and Eleanor, climb out of a line of limousines and walk into the Hotel. Sidney stands for a moment, looking around him. Hollywood. He's finally here. We hear the opening of Virgina Plain by Roxy Music. We are swooping in towards the hotel and an enormous for Sophie's new film - in pre- production. It's a re-make of Singing In The Rain - with Russel Crowe. We down from Sophie's fifteen foot laughing face to find Sidney standing on a slim ledge outside his hotel window. He is drunk and wearing only his underwear. He is also yelling with fear. The window behind him is crowded with people shrieking with laughter. Gingerly he edges back to the window and climbs back into... It's a wild party. Music is blaring, people are dancing, drinking, laughing. You didn't do it! High. You let me down! Too high! You couldn't do it. Too high. Sophie calmly unzips her dress and steps out of it, standing in her underwear. There is applause from the on- lookers. Calmly she steps out of the window onto the ledge and disappears from sight. The on-lookers crane out of the window, yelling encouragement. After a moment Sophie appears at another window further along the wall and climbs back into the room to ecstatic applause. She stares imperiously at Sidney. What are you? Your limpy pig. What? I'm your limpy pig! That's right! Okay, limpy pig. You need to pay a forfeit. Whatcha got? I've got my little limpy dance. Sidney dances a little, jiggling up and down. Give me your ring. Sidney stops dancing, his smile fading a little. can't... Give me the ring. want it. can't. Sophie stares at him through narrowed eyes. Okay, give me the ring and if win tomorrow, I'll let you have sex with me. The on-lookers shriek with delight. Sidney stares at her. He looks past her to his reflection in the window - a drunk man in his underwear, swaying from side to side... Sidney is back in his own room, alone, a mess. He sits on the floor chopping lines of coke on the coffee table. He stares groggily at the space on his finger where his ring used to be. (muttering to himself) You're a star. You're a big, bright shining star... He snorts a line and, leaning back, flicks blankly through channels - a sports programme, a news station, a sit-com re-run... He snorts another line, flicks stations - more sports, a music video, a black and white movie... Sidney stops, staring at the screen... - we're watching the fifties British movie we saw at the beginning of the film. Sidney's is typing at the desk in the background. She gets up from the desk and walks into another office. Sidney stares, frozen. Sidney's mother passes the who is staring out of the window, smoking. She stares at her sympathetically. (Celia Johnson accent) Don't worry Mary...you'll meet him one day. How will know when do? Oh, when you meet the One, you'll know... She walks on. Sidney stares at the screen. conveyor belt of limousines arriving outside the Hilton. Rain falls. Celebrities wave to the watching crowds as they make their way up the red carpet, cameras flash... Sophie emerges from a limo, looking amazing. She makes her way up the carpet, Sidney walks behind, smiling vaguely... Various celebrities are being interviewed. Sidney stands a little apart, lost in thought. Well, well... Look at you... Lawrence Maddox stands beside him, something nervous in his manner now, the old confidence gone. He has been drinking. Made it all the way to the Seventh Room. He holds out his hand. Congratulations. The wheel of fortune right? You go up, go down. You're here with Sophie? How about doing your old Rabbi a favour and putting in a good word for me? Maybe a little interview? Sidney absent-mindedly takes his hand, looking past him. Is Alison here? Alison? No, we went our separate ways. Actually she left me. Tells me she's in love with someone else. Sidney stares at him. Nope, not you I'm afraid Sidalee. She threw us both over. Some guy named Clark. mean...Clark. Can you believe it? But these are the sacrifices we make, right? don't need to tell you. It's not a vacation. It's a vocation. So listen, about Sophie... But Sidney is no longer listening. - we move in on Sidney, sitting at the table, listening to the Best Actress award. This is where we first met him. This is me at the Golden Globes. That's my Armani tuxedo. That's a Rolex Sea-Dweller 4000 watch I'm wearing. I'm inside. I'm at the centre of everything. I'm right where wanted to be. Beside him Sophie covers her face with her hands and starts to stand, having just won Best Actress. Sidney stares at her hands - she is wearing his gold ring. We move back into real time, sound swells up, thunderous applause. Sidney claps along with the others. Then he stands up and goes after Sophie. (taking her arm) need my ring back. Sophie turns back to him, her smile fixed. need my ring back. As if puzzled by her inability to make it to the stage, Sophie, still smiling, tries to pull her arm free. Eleanor is instantly beside them, trying to disengage Sidney's hand. (smiling, hissing) What are you doing? Let her go! She isn't the One. My mother gave me that ring and told me had to give it to the One. She isn't the One. The applause is still going strong. Cameras move in on Sophie as she starts to struggle, her smile slipping. Sidney tries to pull the ring free from her finger. Officials move in. What the fuck are you doing? Just...Will you...I don't want to be on the inside. don't want to be at the Party. don't want to have have sex with you. (Beat) Sophie stares at him for a moment then with a shriek launches herself at him. They tumble backwards. The Officials rush upon them. There are gasps from the other tables, people standing up to see what's going on. Mrs Kowalski sits watching the pandemonium on (on the You fucking mother-fucking fucker! Soddom and Gomarrah. The Sharps Fashionistas are gathered watching the awards on in silent horror. Sophie kicks out at Sidney, ripping her dress in the process. Oh God no...not the Versace... Security pile on Sidney... Richard Young sits watching the awards on He gives a small smile. Alison sits watching on a in the corner of the bar. (On - losing it) You're finished! You're finished! Alison begins to smile. Sidney bursts free from the scrum of Security and begins to run across the room, overturning a table in the process, Officials racing after him. Sidney sprints for the doors. He notices Vincent Lepak's startled face as he passes it. He stops, ducks back and slaps the back of Vincent's head, knocking the onto the floor. Sidney stamps on them and runs on. Vincent gapes after him. ...watching from his table as the people around him stand up to see the chase. He shakes his head in horror and then tries, and fails, to restrain a sudden bark of laughter... Sidney bursts out of the hotel onto the red carpet and is momentarily stopped by the sight of the massed ahead, behind the red rope. The Paparazzi stare back at Sidney - his face bruised, shirt collar ripped - equally nonplussed. There is a frozen moment then Sidney plunges forward, ducking under the red rope, back amongst his own kind, pushing through them until he disappears amongst the crowd. Sidney stands at the desk. The next available flight is ten am sir. Gets you into New York six thirty Sidney sighs. Sidney sits in the almost deserted terminal waiting for the flight back to New York. He is still wearing his dishevelled tux. He looks down at his tightly clenched hand and slowly opens his fingers to reveal his Sidney is in a cab, still wearing his tux, his travel bag slung over shoulder. He stares out as the cab passes the entrance to a sign advertises an outdoor screening of La Dolce Vita. Stop the car! An outdoor has been set up. is playing on a large screen. crowd sits around the park, watching the movie. Sidney stands scanning the crowd. He locates Alison sitting near the back. She is holding her notebook, watching the movie. Beside her is the remains of a picnic, with lit candles. Sidney smiles and starts towards her, then stops. She is sitting next to a As Sidney watches she rests her head on his shoulder. Sidney watches, numb, then turns to walk away... stands in front of him in full drag, waving frantically. He starts to run towards Sidney, who sighs and closes his eyes - as if things weren't bad enough. Then Bob runs straight past him. Sidney turns to see the Man next to Alison standing up to embrace Bob. The two kiss. Alison watches Bob and her friend embrace with a touch of sadness. Suddenly she realises someone is standing beside her. She looks up and sees Sidney. She stares at him. Long Beat. Sidney holds out his hand. Alison hesitates and then takes his hand and stands up. How's the novel? Finished. Sidney smiles. He takes the notebook from her and tosses it back onto the picnic blanket. Then he kisses her. As he does so he takes the and slips it into Alison's coat pocket. Then they begin to dance, cha-cha-chaaing happily at the back of the park, as the music swells, lit by the flickering light from the screen. Suddenly Sidney freezes, staring over Alison's shoulder to where we can see he has accidentally thrown her onto a lit candle. It is now Sidney shoves Alison aside and dives for the book... How to Lose Friends & Alienate People : Peter Straughan