Written by Abi Morgan Author's Note: References to mean the undifferentiated years of the recent past (not 2011). The of a large refrigerator just audible over the sound of Indian music - briefly glimpsed pondering cartons of milk. The electronic of the cash til. man on a mobile phone pushes past who takes her place second in the queue. The female shopkeeper piles newspapers on the counter in front of Distracted by images of the bombed hotel on the she hesitates for beat. One forty-nine please. How much is the milk? Forty-nine pence. (taking the change) Thank you. turns to leave, jostled by a tall young man wired into an ipod. heads down the busy street, shopping bag in hand. sits at breakfast with her husband sipping tea. butters his toast. shakes her head. Too much. Much too much butter. like butter. Milk's gone up. reaches for a jug, pouring milk into it, sliding it down on a table. 49p a pint. Good grief! We'll have to economise. suppose we could always sell the car. (chuckles) Or take in paying guests! He scoops up the newspaper and glances towards the door - Watch out. She's on the prowl. looks beyond to a a sense of growing commotion. concerned coming up the stairs meeting [early 60's] MARGARET's carer, along a distant corridor, steady on the approach. (to Eat your egg. smiles with visible relief on seeing now sitting tapping open her egg. Goodness! There you are. JUNE's look of quiet concern. Yes. eats her egg. Here we are. But for she is entirely alone. don't understand how it happened, how could she possibly have got out? It's very very important - looks out of the kitchen. Her down the corridor of and the and a Please just make it really clear. Who's on after you? Dixon. slips away. hurries through the hall. wide cupboard- MARGARET's eyes move back along the rail in front of her, her fingers touch hanger after hanger of brown tweed and grey twill. goes over to the curtains, pulling them back, letting in the sunlight- Beautiful day. Oh, you've made a start. Carol's coming soon, I'll get some bags. Anything you want to go to Mark, I'll bring up a suitcase for it. The smell of smoke lingering. Suddenly hand reaches across, wavering between jackets of brown tweed and grey twill- He reaches for a suit. No no no no. The grey. You sure? The swipe of a clothes brush, briefly seen, drawn across one sleeve- Yes. Distant footsteps- ...Definitely the grey. returns, oblivious- Righty ho. Boss knows best. spies the newspaper, sees the photos of twisted carnage on the front page. Don't let her take my paper away. reaches one hand out to scoop it up in passing- Oh, haven't had a chance to look at that yet, dear. Sorry. hesitates, leaves the newspaper resting on the bed as she heads off with the suit on a hanger. Atta-girl. smiles as he stands in the bathroom doorway, soaping his face with shaving cream- He hums to himself as he resumes shaving until- Damn. looks up, has nicked his chin- Blot it...Blot it.. She turns, sees through the ajar door, standing in the corridor, looking back at her Sorry ? comfortable drawing room, filled with the photographs and memorabilia of a former political life. stands by the window, half a dozen of ties in her hand. Pulling back the net curtain, peers out- Two stand down below next to a Police car. They are lost in conversation, pointing to the door, clearly concerned. One nods to the other, a sense of the changing of the guard as he drives off in the from behind- Now look what you've done. Are they to keep the loonies out or you in? eyes looking at her with wry smile - I'll be off then. Wear your scarf. There's a chill out there. Suddenly looming over her and grinning down as if at the top of a tunnel MARGARET's personal secretary carrying a cardboard box. Good morning Lady Thatcher. Are you alright ? (concerned) How are you feeling ? I'm fine, thank you Susie. I've just been reading about the bombings. Yes. Frightful. SUSIE's mobile goes off. She fumbles in her bag to switch it off. Sorry. These are the books for you to sign. brought as many as could find. Shall we go through your appointments? looks at her still nonplussed. We said we'd go through them today. nods- Yes, of course, dear. Today. The invitation has come from Downing Street for the unveiling of your portrait. I'll put it on the mantelpiece, and there's an invitation from Lord Armstrong for lunch on the first Friday of next month. The murmur of SUSIE's voice, a kind of white noise- said no because you've got a concert that afternoon but if you'd like to..? ....It looks like a very interesting programme. MARGARET's listens, oddly distracted- What are they playing? looks at her momentarily at a loss then scrabbles back through the diary- think they said Rogers and Hammerstein. An orchestra in full flight- programme for & on a woman's lap. man's hand reaches in and her hands slips into his. Whilst shuffles through the arrangements at the desk in the background, stands at the window. Silly man. MARGARET's gaze, seeing just visible in the street below. He looks up, smiles, He hasn't got his scarf on. throws a half wave. In return, he twirls his umbrella and does a couple of steps of a Chaplin walk for her benefit before passing the Postman who is shuffling through his letters as he approaches the front step, below. looks on with quiet concern. is at her desk signing a stack of her memoirs, The Downing Street Years. opens one, reaching for a pen. The curve of inky handwriting as she begins to sign them, Margaret Thatcher. Close on the swoop of the pen. Without missing a beat, she writes the name Margaret Roberts... The insistent blare of an air raid siren from another time cuts through - The rumble of an approaching air raid overhead- The of the table legs all around pulls out to reveal- [early 50's] austere, crouched next to under a wide kitchen table along with [early/mid 50's] a cumbersome man and [21 yrs]. The sound of an air-raid siren. Did someone cover the butter? All look at one another in a panic. I'll go. Suddenly scrabbles out from under the table, all look on with horror- Leave it. Margaret- scooping up the butter cover slamming it quickly over the thin slice of butter left in the butter dish before sliding it into the cold cupboard underneath the counter. the shop illuminates- momentarily paralyzed before, running back towards the back parlour to resume her place under the table. scrabbles underneath. surreptitiously pats her arm. Good girl. She shrugs, flushing with pride. Tomorrow, no matter what they do, it'll be business as usual. The of the air raid dissolving away- boy and girl look on as measures flour on the shop scales. Two of the small beef, Mr. Roberts. glances up at her father serving further down the counter. What is the life blood of any community? It's business.... on a small town hall stage behind a makeshift podium. Not just big business but small businesses, like mine. The press of all around, a lone woman amongst them, peering over shoulders. (passing/hushed aside) Margaret! tuts, shoving a tray in her hand. sinks a little, taking the tray, and glances back at just visible on a stage. We on this island are strong. We're self-reliant. Sometimes we're plain bloody minded. holding a tray loaded with dirty cups, watches her father, back turned to the kitchen filled with and making tea and washing up cups. But we also believe in helping each other. And don't mean by state hand-outs... sweeps outside the shop, glancing across the street at- dolled up for the evening and arms linked, crossing on the other side of the pavement. Margaret, do you want to come to the pictures? MARGARET's eyes catch on the glitter of a broach in passing. They turn to look at her and She can't come, she's got to study. The of skin - Miss Hoity Toity! The her disparagingly. Never run with the crowd, Margaret. Go your own way. The of a as they walk away. (close to) Open it then. Close on a telegram addressed to 1-3 North Parade, Grantham. father watching. (looking up) I've got a place at Oxford. bear-hugs awkwardly. at her desk, the ghost of a smile. Don't let me down Margaret. The of a teacup- looks down the corridor in expectation at standing at the sink working the of the cloth against a stubborn tea stain. (calling out) Mother? comes down the corridor into the shop, wiping her hands on a cloth. goes to hand the letter. (shakes head) My hands are still damp. turns and walks back to where she came from. looks back at the letter, heart bursting, trying to contain her joy. looks down, pen in hand, the words Margaret Roberts newly signed in the front cover. She tears the page out. napping in bed. The still of the bedroom, caught in the half light of a late afternoon- hand slides a teacup onto the bedside table - The flicker of MARGARET's eyelids- (passing/hushed aside) Margaret! tuts, shoving a tray in her hand. stirs again, blinking awake. sits by the window. He is bent over a pair of spectacles, wrapping wire around one of the arms with a pair of pliers. Other items of clothing of his are on Margaret's couch. (without taking his eyes of the job) They're talking about you again. The murmur of on the phone- What time is it? Sun's not quite over the yard arm. Time for tea. phone rings, considers now wearing a pink turban and confronts the extraordinary head-gear. What have you got on your head? smiles, throwing back his head, the swathe of pink fabric from his turban hanging down ridiculously- Found it in the cupboard and thought bugger it, it's Friday, why not fancy dress? sits drinking her tea, JUNE's hushed tones almost audible. You look ridiculous. strains to hear- Bosslady no like? She makes a shushing motion. (as if to a bad dog) No, Denis, Bosslady no like. resumes listening. The door ajar, the sounds of life just audible outside- It's taken Carol so long to get her to agree to this. She's been so reluctant to let his things go. sinks onto the bed, bored. (without looking) Feet. He tuts and adjusts his legs so that his shoes don't dirty the bedspread. stands, ear pressed close to the open door- You can never be sure she's taking her medication...I think sometimes she hides them.. Oh, rumbled! looks back at her cup of tea, spots two pills resting in the tea cup. She considers the pills, pops them in her mouth, drinks. She's definitely more distracted than usual today. shout in the street. woman's voice. Can suggest you remove the sticker from the back of your car. Margaret looks through the net curtains and sees THATCHER[early 50's] just visible stepping out of a taxi, remonstrating with the driver, clutching her purse and waving her credit card at him with rising irritation. Well then take the sticker off! call that false advertising! would say keep the change, but there isn't any change. scotch being poured. The cap not quite going back on the whisky bottle. frantic fumble for the remotes for the tv. Hello June, any news? I've brought every bag could find. High shot of sitting in a chair watching As if she has been there a while. enters with suit carriers in her arms. Hello Ma. Bloody taxi driver. Wouldn't take my card. said don't have a sticker saying you take Visa and then insist on cash. Can you believe it? was rummaging around the bottom of my bag. He didn't get a tip. didn't know that you were dropping by today, dear. (Dumping her stuff all over the place) Yes, you said yesterday...You wanted to make a start on Dad's things. The cupboards ? Then can help you dress. nonplussed. You've got Michael and- Jaqueline... Coming for dinner tonight. Of course. (turning up the We're having halibut. On images of a bombed street, Oh God. Isn't it terrible? nods, both silently listening to the drone of the newscaster- They think it's Al Quaida - The charred remains of cars, desperate people running, a rescue operation midway- blinks, inwardly reeling from the images- Denis! Quick Flash: Denis in pyjamas, brushing his teeth in a hotel bathroom, glances at her through the open door. It'll be fine. Come on, get your head down, it's ten to three, for God's sake. Chaos outside the Grand Hotel in the aftermath of the bomb. The injured are pulled through the rubble. At ten to three this morning an explosion extensively damaged the Grand Hotel in Brighton, scene of the Conservative Party conference. ...Where the Prime Minister and a number of her cabinet were staying. They escaped unhurt - The of The of The image of a being stretchered out of the rubble by Five people have died, many others are injured, some critically. The have claimed responsibility. and sit in their coats covering MARGARET's evening dress and pyjamas. Both looking out in silent shock at the devastated Grand hotel, reflected on the glass of the car windows. looks on with quiet, sobering despair, still numb with shock. looks at her. He grips her hand. They sit, fingers locked. Close on MARGARET's hand and whisky glass. Shaking. (standing up) We must release a statement, offering our condolences. I'm sure they've already- We must never, ever, ever give in to terrorists. sees and exchange looks of `oh dear...' sits in a dressing gown at a dressing table, staring at her reflection. stands behind her, holding up several dresses. Now ma, are we going long or just below the knee tonight? Oh, below the knee should think. She watches, irritated, as reaches to move a pile of clothes- No! Don't move those. haven't finished sorting them. settles beside her on a chair. hear you went out today...You mustn't go out on your own Mummy. We've talked about that. There was no milk. Call Robert he'll get it for you if June's not up- am not for the knackers yet. From behind- Now take it easy, Margaret. just visible, perched on the bed, looks up from doing the crossword in the newspaper- No one is saying that. If can't go out to buy a pint of milk then what is the world coming to. Really Carol, please don't fuss about it. You've always been like this, fuss fuss fuss. You must find something better to do with your time. It's most unattractive in a woman. When was your age the last thing wanted to do was fuss around my mother. Silence- inwardly stung quietly busying herself, forcing all emotion away. hesitates catching eye, with quiet warning. Four down, 9 letters. withdraws into his crossword. Something b something t something n...something something somthing...Refusal to change course- Obstinate. writes, pleased. looks up, with quiet bemusement- What? deflects, pointing to a necklace in CAROL's hands. Pearls. I'll wear the pearls. slips them onto neck and fastens them. There they are. My little twins. Thank you, dear. The murmur of conversation- tails steady on the approach towards the drawing room. It's nearly all familiar faces, William, Michael and his lovely wife- Jacqueline. smiles, clearly reassured- And then there's Peter, James and James and that very nice man- Yes- - we met last year. Yes remember- think he's bringing his new lady friend just to mix it up a bit. We're rather short on women - but I'm sure we'll manage- I've always preferred the company of men- gestures ahead, nods, reticent, yet forcing herself on, she hesitates at the door, her hand trembling on the handle. Ma? Close up of a shoe being rubbed on a calf. young hand hesitating on a door handle. 1950's drinks party- bank of stuffy pontificating and their lost in a separate polite conversation- Ah, Miss Roberts. Hoping to be chosen as our candidate for parliament. young [24yrs] stylish in a suit, straight from work, stands clutching her handbag, oddly out of place amidst the neat 50's chintz. bank of sporting prints collage a wall. bespectacled (30's) glances up from his drink, taking her in. The of dinner party conversation- Well don't like coalitions, never have... MARGARET's of her fingers absently grazing a confusing array of cutlery laid out in place setting in front of her. Her confused face. Start on the outside... whispers. ...and work your way in. long table packed with silverware. She looks back at her ornate and rather hideous starter, a tiny wobbling savoury confection in aspic. ...Attlee has his sights set on the steel industry, you mark my words. They'll be nationalizing the bloody air next. Yes, hold your breath, sir, that's government property! So was your father a political man, too, Miss Roberts? Oh, yes, to his core. And Mayor of Grantham. And a grocer as well! Yes. Ears prick up around the table. The Host is lost for something to say. And did you help, err, in the...shop? Oh, yes. It was a family business. very good starting point for the political life, I'm sure. That and a degree from Oxford. The put-down, though not intentional, causes Denis to smile. catches the smile. She remains unruffled and goes back to her food, picking up a knife and fork, working her way in, teasing her hors d'oeuvres. sits oddly removed, hand instinctively covering her wine glass, as a hovers. (hushed aside to Whisky. The of conversation all around- Pudding is on the go and Margaret is warming to her theme. What do think is that a man should be encouraged to stand on his own two feet. Yes we help people of course we help people. But for those that can do, they must just get up and do. And if something's wrong, they shouldn't just whine about it, they should get in there and something about it, change things. The female guests exchange glances. half-chuckle from someone. With all due respect, Miss Roberts, what may have served in Grantham- Can serve very well for the people of Dartford too. Really? general sense of quiet incredulity. know much more than those who have never lived on a limited income. Just like the man or woman on the street, when am short one week, have to make economies the next. Nothing like a slice of fiscal responsibility. man might call it fiscal responsibility, a woman might call it good housekeeping. I'm not sure a home economics lesson is quite what the Dartford constituents need. They see industry being nationalized, the unions on the up, the pound on the slide...whoever can sort that lot out - he's my man. Or woman? Denis lets out a spontaneous guffaw as the host and hostess exchange looks. He signals `Get them out of here'. The men rise. Ladies shall we ? Miss Roberts, do join the ladies. The ladies scurry to the sitting room. Margaret is the last to leave. As Margaret closes the door to the dining room - Well. That's told us! The men laugh raucously. She turns to the ladies who are regrouping at the fireplace and regarding her with suspicion. The aftermath of the muted dinner party- at the helm, a small whisky just visible nestled next to her wine glass. She is flushed and nicely mellow surrounded by mainly So, Margaret, how would you have dealt with this if you'd been Prime Minister? looks at him, her flicker of bemusement. ...slowly registering across the faces of her and including Where? The bombings, mummy. Today? still lost We were just talking about them? deflects, reaching for her glass, it trembles unsteady in her grasp. No, uhm, yes - we have always lived alongside evil. But it has never been so patient, so avid for carnage, so eager to carry innocents with it into oblivion. So, would you - Western civilization must root out this evil, wherever it hides, or she risks defeat at the hands of global terror in a nuclear age. Unimaginable! Appreciative murmur of agreements amongst the listening party- The Prime Minister gave a very good statement thought. Yes. Clever man. Quite a smoothie. Laughter- says final farewells to a guest. He walks away as another couple approach. You don't mind if sit down... Sitting down on a nearby chair, looks with feigned recollection at the as she sinks down on the ground in front of her, gripping MARGARET's hand. heard you speak at conference in 1984 in Brighton just after the bombed the Grand Hotel. You were remarkable. hope you appreciate what an inspiration you have been for women like myself. hesitates, smiles, nods to herself, considering- It used to be about trying to do something. Now its about trying to be someone. The nods and scrambled to her feet, clearly concerned, shooting a look to her standing beside her, waiting to depart. Well anyway, I...thank you. Good night to you. sits alone. In the background, the chatter of Carol saying final farewells. Great to see you, thank you very much for coming. Oh, thank you. It was lovely, absolutely lovely. And I'm so pleased to see your mother looking so well. mirror lined dressing room- helps with her shoes. OK...hold on to me...that's right. struggles with the catch on her pearls Can you do the clasp, can't quite - hurries to help her, quietly concedes. Fingers fumble to unclasp the pearls- Thank you. drops the pearls into a jewelry box, close to staring back at their reflections. You've got an eyelash. catches the stray eyelash on the tip of her finger, holding it close to with a smile- Make a wish. closes her eyes until- blows. She opens them smiles. smiles. spoke to Doctor Michael today- glances away, deflecting. He is very good and very expensive- ignores her- know you're not due to see him for another month but I've spoken to him and he can fit you in tomorrow. Just for a check up. (silence) Ma please- What does Mark think about it? Mark? Yes. Tell him to come up. want to talk to him about it. hesitates, with concern- Mark's with Sarah and the children. nods, heading through into the bathroom. Well tell him to come up and see me after he's kissed them good night, would you Carol darling? sitting on her bed, glances expectantly towards the door. Carol sits down beside her. He's not here Mummy. hesitates, using all her might, not to crumble under MARGARET's cool gaze- Mark lives in South Africa... inwardly flinches. ...you are not Prime Minister anymore and Dad is...Dad is dead- Silence- You look exhausted, dear. You really must try to get some sleep. Taxis'll be few and far between at this hour... Righty-ho. Night night Ma. Sleep well. Good night, dear. The slam of a door. sits, alone. of Denis turning to her in the theatre. He smiles. MARGARET's absently grazing over the programme, in time with the music- a closed fist reaches out, then opens to reveal a sugar mouse. Margaret's fingers reach for it, but it's teasingly withdrawn. Finally, she takes its. She turns to smile at her face is glowing with happiness- sits on the edge of a trestle table, scrunching a rosette in her hand. The Town Hall is empty save for a couple of Volunteers stacking chairs and sweeping the floor. The litter of election night is everywhere. Twenty-four-year-old Miss Margaret Roberts lost her bid to win a seat in Parliament today, but she has put new life into the Dartford Conservative Association. Winning candidate Mr Dodds had better watch out, this bright young woman is on his tail. appears in the doorway, carrying fish and chips. He slides them down in front of her. Eat! almost smiles. Then sinks once more into misery. Disaster. Hang on...Hang on...Hang on... fishes in his pocket pulling out a hip flask. An impromptu supper made. takes in the aftermath of rosettes, the whiff of defeat all around. You shaved thousands off their majority. You did splendidly. Not splendidly enough. Ah see. Self pity. eyes him, mid chip- No one is saying you don't need a safe seat. You deserve a safe seat. But it does not come unless you learn to play the game a little. What game? She is fuming but he regroups with a big breath. You are a grocer's daughter- (fiercely) -And proud of being- He grabs her hand, silencing her. - in their eyes. single grocer's daughter. But if you were to become the wife of a moderately successful businessman- For the first time, we see taken by surprise. You'd get to parliament, and I'd get to be the happiest man in- in wherever they select you. Margaret, will you marry me? She is genuinely stunned. Well ? She is frozen. Then she begins to smile and nod her head and smile. Yes. Yes! He leans over and kisses her, long and passionately until- What ? love you so much but...I will never be one of those women Denis - who stays silent and pretty on the arm of her husband. Or remote and alone in the kitchen doing the washing up for that matter. (trying to retain the moment) We'll get a help for that. He leans forward to kiss her again but she pulls away a little. No - one's life must matter, Denis. Beyond the cooking and the cleaning and the children, one's life must mean more than that - cannot die washing up a tea cup. He sits up and stares as if seeing her for the first time. mean it Denis, say you understand. That's why want to marry you, my dear. She kisses him. of a They pull apart. and on seeing- enters the hall, cleaning up the last of the tea cups, and generally tidying. Now eat. smiles her joy at him as swells. And now she's in his arms as they dance, swirling through the election debris, eyes only for each other. now on all fours, struggling with her glasses. pile of DVD's on the floor, The and amongst them momentarily catching her eye until- with hand-written scrawl that we can't quite read. flicks open the box, struggling to get the out. Fiddling with the player, puts in the disc and considers, squinting at the remote, trying to make the player work until, suddenly... Super 8 footage - 1959 Children on a beach in wind-swept, grainy super 8. Denis with a golf club and ping pong balls practicing his drive from a tee, sending ball after ball skying into the sea. Mark and Carol charge into the water to retrieve them. There they are, my little twins. Mark... approaches the camera laughing and appears to take hold of it. is seen sitting on a wobbly camping stool, hardly dressed for the beach, surrounded by papers weighed held down by pebbles. She merrily returns to her work. Cornwall, wasn't it? Bloody hell... Look at `em, little imps. You never really got golf, did you? sits behind her on the sofa in a dressing gown, watching the footage. She sips her whisky. You look happy. Yes, do, don't You're drinking too much. ignores him. Whatcha doing? looks at unwavering. She resumes a search- Not like you. Looking back. presses rewind on the remote, clutched in her hand. Don't want to dig around too deep, Don't know what you might find. The rapid rewind of Denis swinging his golf club. You can rewind it, but you can't change it. She freezes the image of him turning to camera, laughing. They grow up so fast. Margaret turns with something to say, but Denis doesn't seem to be there anymore. Now on the screen, Mark on a swing. face softens. Mark. He turns and rushes towards the camera, whooshing past it. Without breaking step, suddenly, he's in the room, running past Margaret, still cheering and whooping. MARGARET's hand, just skimming MARK's golden curls. As he moves on, MARGARET's curiosity caught following him out and down the corridor of Chester Square, seeing the Mark and Carol disappear round a corner. The view beyond- Mr Eric Deakins, Labour... The of gravel as and race across the drive towards a blue ford car, covered with Tory blue streamers and a poster scrawled with the words Victory. now on all fours, struggling with her glasses. pile of DVD's on the floor, The and amongst them momentarily catching her eye until- with hand-written scrawl that we can't quite read. flicks open the box, struggling to get the out. Fiddling with the player, puts in the disc and considers, squinting at the remote, trying to make the player work until, suddenly... Super 8 footage - 1959 Children on a beach in wind-swept, grainy super 8. Denis with a golf club and ping pong balls practicing his drive from a tee, sending ball after ball skying into the sea. Mark and Carol charge into the water to retrieve them. There they are, my little twins. Mark... approaches the camera laughing and appears to take hold of it. is seen sitting on a wobbly camping stool, hardly dressed for the beach, surrounded by papers weighed held down by pebbles. She merrily returns to her work. Cornwall, wasn't it? Bloody hell... Look at `em, little imps. You never really got golf, did you? sits behind her on the sofa in a dressing gown, watching the footage. She sips her whisky. You look happy. Yes, do, don't You're drinking too much. ignores him. Whatcha doing? looks at unwavering. She resumes a search- fingers brush dark panelled walls, making her way along endless corridors. Gothic arches, venerable busts, wood panelling and stone. MARGARET's pov as she stays to the side of the impressive corridor. She passes men in suits and groups. Others come towards her and notice her. Her as she pushes open a first door - a circle of men turn round in chorus as if something with three heads has appeared. of a second opening door marked row of urinals. Two headless bodies come towards the camera, scrambling to zip up their flies. of the promise of sanctuary. The door opens onto a cupboard sized space. An ironing board. sea of men's Oxford shoes from ground level. pair of woman's shoes appear amongst them. They go on tip toe. From above we see Margaret's hat amongst the sea of mens heads and shoulders. Margaret is carried along in the sea of MP's [Extremely dapper, friendly 43] approaches Mrs Thatcher ! Airey Neave. Welcome to the madhouse. Follow me. The doors swing open- now on the front bench, wearing a neat blue suit and a hat, a phalanx of sitting beside and around her, and almost at first glance indistinguishable, with (late 50's), neat, effete, slumped rather forlornly on the bench. her speech and papers in her hand is fighting hard but the scent blood - and they literally bray, getting to their feet and shaking their order papers in her face. The tries to control the chamber but his is almost lost in the bedlam. The Right Honourable Lady the Secretary of State for Education. The right honourable gentleman knows that we have no choice but to shut down the schools! Cries of `Shame!' From the opposition. The chamber reduced to a bear-pit. glum and offering no help to whose voice becomes increasingly shrill. Because his union paymasters have called a strike deliberately to cripple our economy. Teachers cannot teach when there is no heating, no lighting in their classrooms. And ask the honourable gentleman, whose fault is that? Methinks the Right Honourable lady doth screech to much. If she wants us to take her seriously she must learn to calm down! The love that, rocking in their seats, laughing... falsely of course. But is aware that there are many behind her, on the government benches, who are also sniggering in agreement. If the right honorable gentleman could perhaps attend more closely to am saying, rather than am saying it, he may receive a valuable education in spite of himself! Her opposite number Shadow Minister looks almost smug: smiling, pointing a finger at her. Why has this Conservative government failed? Why has it forced so many in the public sector into taking strike action to save their own jobs? It brings the benches to their feet, shouting, applauding, stamping... walking with towards Downing Street for a Cabinet Meeting. All around, heaped high on either side as far as the eye can see are bags of rubbish. But not neatly stacked, just thrown there, many of them rotting down, spilling their filthy, putrid contents onto the street. Minister, the breakdown of essential public services - transport, electricity, sanitation is not the fault of the trades unions but of this Conservative government in which you so shamefully serve! The stench is awful - and expression reflects that as she picks her way through. The ranks of at the Cabinet table, including So these power cuts will continue unless we can reach a compromise. is in mid-flow. The miners are asking for a 35% increase in wages. Obviously we can't go anywhere near that. The unions are not our enemies and never have been. We want - and have always wanted - the broadest consensus... The nod. determinedly edges a little forward so that she is in equal line with the other I'm sure we are all in agreement that we must do nothing for the moment that will further inflame the current situation. Hear hear, Prime Minister. leans forward for a better view, trying to catch his eye. wavers, mid-speech. All turn to look at - who sits unwavering. resumes. - the fact of the matter is, it's absolutely crucial that we are seen by the public to be acting as conciliators and not aggressors. (Finally acknowledging Margaret) Yes, Education Secretary. Yes... All eyes on her again, hearing the reservation in her voice. Prime Minister, with the Miners' leader calling today for the army to mutiny in support of the strikes, this seems the wrong time for conciliation. lot of `bloody hell' `oh for god's sake'. Be patient. They'll come back on in a minute. beam of light cuts through, just for an instant picking out moon-like face surrounded by darkness. holds the small torch. Thank you, Margaret. snigger, then the lights flicker back on. Your thoughts are duly noted. turns of the torch and clicks her handbag shut in satisfaction. Heath's words echo in her head, `compromise...compromise...compromise...' An inward look as she's caught by a memory. We on this island are strong. We're self-reliant. Napoleon called us a nation of shopkeepers. The packed town hall, in full flow on stage. He meant it as an insult but to me it's a compliment. That's why he couldn't beat us, and that's why Hitler can't beat us. The crowd of men applaud. The lone woman in their midst, watches her father, face aglow. We Conservatives believe in giving people the freedom and opportunity to fulfil their own potential, especially the young. There's no good in pretending we're all equal, we're not all the same, never have been, never will be. We should encourage our children to aspire to achieve more than we have, for our children today will be the leaders of tomorrow. and seated, driving steadily along a deserted street. thoughtful as the radio plays. It's 1974 and you'd think it was Blackouts, no petrol. It's a mess. Heath should resign now and make way for someone who's not afraid to tackle the unions. nervous prattle begins to break through. swear, it's all gone completely out of my head. My driving instructor thinks should pass but feel as if I've hardly had any lessons. Ridiculous isn't it? Maybe third time lucky. Right. The only thing you should remember is that everyone else is either reckless or inept. And often both. eyes the road, gesturing to move forward. One must be brave if one is to take the wheel- Right-o. Move over... Move to your right a little bit... But if move to the right aren't on the wrong side of the road? Carol! Well he's in the way! To the right. Move to the right! yelp from as the car swerves a little, narrowly missing a lone So sorry! Terribly sorry! throws a wave from the wound down window. The swerves on recognizing her, watching as the car goes round and round the square, almost balletic. Hey, look at me, driving! CAROL's squeals of delight, let loose on the open road. The tyres screech on the corner. Laughter - on the approach- Thanks Ma, that was terrific! really feel I've got a handle on it now. and entering kitchen, still giddy from their adventure. You should have seen us, Pa. in his dressing gown burning toast and attempting to make breakfast - Have you been trying to make breakfast? For Goodness sake, Denis! scrapes down the toast, eggs boiling in the pan. can boil a bloody egg. Mummy took me for a test drive - We went absolutely everywhere. All over the place - (sudden/cutting in) I've decided. I'm going to run. smiles, a growing resolution gripping her. What for? I'm going to run for Leader of the Party. utter disappointment on seeing she has lost already. Silly me! storms out of the kitchen. (calling after) Good luck! All the time thought was having a driving lesson, it was all about my mother, just for a change! What's she on about? It's her driving test this morning! Oh, right. Of course. Are you saying you want to be Prime Minister? (with false patience) What I'm saying is that someone must force the point, say the unsayable. None of these men have the guts. sees the burnt toast and energetically starts clearing up and putting more bread under the grill. The Prime Minister has been very loyal to you, He tries, with a trembling hand, to scoop boiled eggs from the pan. But he's weak, and he's weakened the party. One must know when to go. (glancing at him) You're shaking. She reaches out. can do it! pulls his arm away, sending boiled eggs flying. Goodness me! What is the matter with everyone this morning? beat. He looks utterly fragile. I've told you what the matter is. The business is a bit rocky at the moment and the Doctor thinks need a rest. And do you need a rest? It's almost challenging. He doesn't answer and she doesn't notice. We both know that it's highly unlikely that would ever be elected leader, I'll never be elected leader. But will run. will run. Just to nip at their heels and make them reaffirm the principles on which the Conservative Party must stand. There's so much to do. She smiles. (sotto voce) You're insufferable, Margaret, do you know that? Denis, you married someone who is committed to public service, you knew that. And it is my duty - (interrupts) Don't call it duty. It's ambition which has got you this far. Ambition. And the rest of us, me, the children, we can all go to hell! The of the door, gone- Don't worry about me, I'll be fine! and sit on the sofa. Where did you go? South Africa. Yes. eats breakfast alone, engrossed in the newspaper. How many days passed before you realized was gone? Probably had to ask the cleaning woman where was. grips her whiskey, shaking her head. When did lose track of everyone? Too busy climbing the greasy pole Cutting in - Mrs Thatcher understand you recently visited the United States of America. attention is caught by an old interview, playing on the She leans forward. On screen, she sits in a neat hat, leaning forward eagerly. What was it you took away from that visit which may be of value here in Great Britain? perched on a chair, smiling at the Oh that's rather easy to answer, actually. They are unafraid of success. is watching the same interview on a monitor. She is watching herself intently, as are and They are polar opposites, flamboyant to NEAVE's bluff. She sounds very plummy, like a Conservative party wife from the shires. And she wears a hat. We in Great Britain and in Europe are formed mainly by our history. They on the other hand are formed by their philosophy. Not by what has been, but by what can be. Oh, we have a great deal that we can learn from them, yes. Oh yes! is trapped in the moment - but the two men exchange a glance. freezes the picture. smiles uneasily, like someone expecting a compliment. considers her, long and hard. It is a little unsettling until- Well er...For a start, that hat has got to go. And the pearls. In fact think all hats may have to go. You look and sound like a privileged Conservative wife and we've already got her vote. You've got lovely hair but we need to do something with it - to make it more- Important. Yes. Give it more impact. But the main thing is your voice. Its too high. It has no authority. Methinks the Lady doth screech too much People don't want to be harangued by a woman or hectored. Persuaded yes. That `oh yes' at the end of the interview, that's authoritative, that's the voice of a leader. stares at him. It's all very well to talk about changing my voice, Mr Reece, but for some of my colleagues to imagine me as their leader would be like imagining, don't know, being led into battle by their chambermaid. It's my background, and my sex. No matter how I've tried, and have tried, to fit in, will never be truly one of them. Both and are aware that she has spoken very nakedly - and is thus extremely vulnerable. If may say so - think that's your trump card. You're flying in the face of everything the Tories have been thus far. It's really very exciting. One simply has to maximise your appeal, bring out all your qualities and make you look, and sound, like the leader that you could be. You've got it in you to go the whole distance. Absolutely. Prime Minister?! Oh no. Oh no no no. In Britain? There will be no female Prime Minister here, not in my lifetime. No. And told Airey, don't expect to win the leadership, but am going to run. Just to shake up the party. moves in intently- Respectfully, Margaret, disagree. If you want to change this party, lead it. If you want to change the country, lead it. What we're talking about here today is surface. What's crucial is that you hold your course, and stay true to who you are. Never be anything other than yourself. though flattered, looks sceptical. Leave us to do the rest. Gentlemen, am in your hands. may be persuaded to surrender the hat. But the pearls were a gift from my husband on the birth of our twins and they are absolutely non-negotiable. smiles at them. stands humming, a presses her hand to stomach. And...bring it down. hums lower, tries to project her voice. Maaaaaaaaaaaa. Good, think we can loose the handbag, Mrs Thatcher...Hands down the sides...Because this isn't really about the voice, it's about belief...A nice deep breath. and are watching and monitoring the performance. though present, is having a crafty fag by the window. If you're calling Mr Thatcher, how would you do that? looks over at him. (calls) Denis. He doesn't react. Yes, want more authority, want conviction, want - (a little more authority) Denis. That's right, one more time, deep breath - She puts on her new, lower voice. Denis. And reacts immediately, like a guilty thing surprised, stabbing out his cigarette, turning quickly towards her. Yes makes her way through a crowd of applauding workers in crisp white uniforms. Like them, she wears a white cap on her head. You are the backbone of our nation! Small firms like Loveday's Ice Cream. How are you? So nice to meet you ladies. General merriment as now inside an ice-cream van, has a go at dispensing an ice cream from the machine. I'll just have a small one, because I'm watching my figure. (handing the cone out) That's for you young man! is having new hair colour and the colourist is 75 percent through putting her hair in foil. passionately believe it's the growth of small businesses into larger ones that is critical for Britain's future. and are sitting nearby, both of them reading the Financial Times. among the ladies again. It has to be something icy on a stick for Denis. Laughter. (returning to her subject) That's the only way we will produce jobs, real jobs, jobs that sustain. sitting under the dryer, cooking her new hair, still correcting paperwork while and look on, twiddling their thumbs. is standing on an impromptu stage outside a factory. She has a hard hat on her head. The Trade Union Movement was founded to protect workers. Now it persecutes them. It stops them from working. It is killing jobs and it is bringing this country to its knees. say enough. It's time to get up. It's time to go to work. It's time to put the Great back into Great Britain! The bouffant is now apparent. watch in awe. darkened backstage. clutching her speech, goes over her lines. sprays her hair. She looks up, starts to move towards the light. is suddenly next to her. Give `em hell! He looks her up and down, with a smile. You look magnificent. Next stop Prime Minister. Oh Airey... As from the stage - The leader of the Conservative Party, Margaret Thatcher! pushes back her shoulders and walks into battle to the sound of bannered overhead and hung with Union Jacks. a swathe of blue, as she passes through her From behind she stands, arms outstretched, accepting the applause, a shock of bright blonde hair as she stands before a sea of holding up letter cards Wedges of fanatical party faithful on their feet in a kind of rapture. The blessed Margaret ! just visible with and several other of her cabinet, seated close behind now jumping to their feet, with obvious relief and delight - smiles, glorious, catching eye. He is brimming with pride. beams at his protegee. Close on a photograph of and sits looking at it, her coat on, her handbag on her lap. is loading papers and files into the boot of her car. drives towards her, winding down his window. Good night Margaret. My money's on the filly to win! Oh, thanks Airey. Goodnight. He laughs and drives towards the exit of the car park. As closes the boot and opens the door to get in the car suddenly there's a the sound magnified by being in the cavernous underground. For a few seconds we don't know what's happened. Through the smoke we see running up the ramp towards us. No. No, no! Airey! Her of the fireball of Neave's car. As Margaret looks in horror at the scene. Her shattered face. The Irish National Liberation Army has claimed responsibility for the death of Airey Neave, Margaret Thatcher's spokesman on Northern Ireland. on the conference podium, blinking back tears. Behind her, Denis' face etched with the same sorrow. walks alone down the grand stairway, sombre, deep in thought. looks up from the photograph, tears in her eyes. If you want to change the party, lead it. If you want to change the country, lead it. You've got it in you to go the whole distance! On as memories flood in. headline announces: 1979. on the podium. Now, as the test draws near, ask your help. That together we can shake off the shackles of socialism and restore to greatness this country that we love so much. And the only way is for the Conservative Party to win! The black streak of car, a blur of colour, faces, waving flags - footage of polling night. Swingometers, pollsters, impressionistic snatches of reported speech. More footage of coming out of polling stations. Jubilant crowds applauding.. silhouetted in her iconic stance, arms aloft... peering out of the window, hands sunk in the lap, a flash of the Royal blue fabric of her skirt, clenched in fingers. It's Friday the 4th of May, an historic day for Britain, a Conservative government led by Mrs. Thatcher is set to lead - Mrs Ghandi in India, but never in the West has there been a woman Prime Minister. The place that she has secured in British history, as the first woman ever to be invited to form a government. The bonus of one of the most famous addresses in the world, Number 10 Downing Street. read `We blur through the window, an abstract cacophony of noise and colour- This is it, steady the buffs old girl. He clasps her hand for a moment as smiles at him. The door swings open- The from behind on rising up out of the car, to face a waiting The jostle of a and press her either side- should just like to say that take very seriously the trust the British people placed in me today, and will work hard every day to live up to that responsibility. And now, should like to share with you a prayer of St Francis of Assisi: Where there is discord may we bring harmony... Where there is error may we bring truth... Where there is doubt may we bring faith... Where there is despair may we bring hope.. The rises up, high above until she is just a blue dot, on the dark tarmac, a lone woman standing facing the circle of cameras and microphones. The door of Number 10 looms ahead. The cheers go over .. The gathering for a group shot- Shoulders back, tummies in! Laughter. Michael Heseltine, standing behind reaches out to smooth a stray lock of her hair. Oh. Thank you, Michael. seated at the heart of her entire as if she is royalty. The of the - the image frozen. The same image, framed on a side table beside The distant hum of a hoover. I'm perfectly healthy. There's no need for any of this. Denis appears, his hand inside his shoe, polishing it vigorously. Just let them look under the bonnet, Check everything is hunky dory. hesitates. She sits in silence until- Really it's becoming quite tiresome. What is? You. (beat) was on my own for twenty four years before met you and can manage perfectly well without you now. So will you please go away and stop bothering me. distinguished consulting room- sits silent, as an checks her blood pressure. The beep of the machine, steady and monotonous until- Just look straight at me, straight ahead, that's it. The scribbles some notes, considering- Are you noticing night sweats? No Hallucinations? hesitates. She shakes her head. No. Sleep? Yes, sleep. Four, five hours a night. So you wake early? And stay up late. always have. She looks at him as if he really should know this about her. The notes this down. We just want to keep abreast of it. Yes. Of course. Grief is a very natural state. My husband has been gone for years. Cancer. Carol says you've decided to let his things go. Probably a good thing. Yes. It was my idea. To Oxfam. Perfectly good stuff. People can use these things. Still it must be a bit disorientating. You are bound to be feeling. What? What am `bound to be feeling'? The looks up from his note taking, hearing the quiet challenge in MARGARET's voice. People don't `think' any more. They `feel'. `How are you feeling?' `Oh don't feel comfortable with that' `Oh, I'm so sorry but we, the group were feeling...' D'you know, one of the great problems of our age is that we are governed by people who care more about feelings than thoughts and ideas. (beat) Now thoughts and ideas. That interests me. (beat) Ask me what am thinking- The hesitates, letting settle until- What are you thinking, Margaret? looks at the quietly struggling with a fury, threatening to unleash- Watch your thoughts, for they become words. Watch your words, for they become actions. Watch your actions, for they become habits. Watch your habits, for they become your character. And watch your character, for it becomes your destiny. What we think, we become. My father always said that. (beat) And think am fine. (beat) But do so appreciate your kind concern. The sudden and persistent buzz of an intercom- Oh, do please answer that. holds his gaze, with quiet unwavering steel unsettling the a little. It might be someone who needs you. The reluctantly answers his intercom- heads up the stairs, following behind. I'll give Carol a quick ring, let her know we're back, then I'll put your electric blanket on. nods. Looking through the bannisters, her eyes fall on- golf ball running along the floor. considers, looks up- Steady, steady, steady! Damn. Fore! The ball bounces down the wooden stairs. opens the fridge. cold plated lunch resting on a shelf. What about that medicine man, eh? Ah. Cold supper. Standards are slipping Margaret. ignores taking out the plate unwrapping the cellophane off it and placing it on a table, already laid ready for her to eat. Well you really gave it to that quack didn't you, darling ? Just like the old days! Hallucinations my eye! picks up a piece of cucumber from her plate. She absently smacks at his hand. How dare he? smiles. But then you give us all the run around, don't you? looks at him, silently infuriated. pours herself a whiskey. looms close, serves a splash of soda. know you can hear me, sweetheart, so there's no use pretending you can't. turns, ignoring him. Enough. Denis, enough! (saluting) Dismissed! sits reading spy novel. She does it in the end. Kills him- slams the book closed. don't know why you're being so scratchy. MARGARET's eyes dart to the clock. It's not as if you've got anyone else to talk to. Shaking her head, tries to block him out. When the Himalayan peasant meets the he-bear in his pride - You know, it's a marvel to me that you can still quote huge chunks of Kipling but try remembering the name of that woman who's just made you that godawful cold collation... No? Come on... you can do it... month of the year... one syllable... rhymes with moon (sudden/like a lightbulb) June. turns to a quiet appalling victory. June! Bingo. Knew you'd get there in the end. "When the Himalayan peasant meets the he-bear in his pride, He shouts to scare the monster, who will often turn aside, but the she-bear thus accosted rends the peasant tooth and nail. For the female of the species is more deadly than the male..." As he continues, reaches for the remote, turns the television on. She moves onto the radio. Then the stereo. She moves on, talking to herself- gradual growing cacophony of sound- flicks on mixers, radios, toasters- The noise almost unbearable now- turns on a hi-fi, the now on- If can't hear you then can't see you. And if can't see you then you are not here. closes her eyes. And if you are not here, am not going mad. will not...I will not go mad. She opens them and suddenly freezes on seeing an image of herself, bewildered and leaving Harley Street, caught on the Baroness Thatcher made an apparently routine visit to her doctor today. Although rarely seen in public, Lady Thatcher, the longest serving Prime Minister of the twentieth century, remains a controversial figure. turns up the volume to full, trying to hear over the cacophony of noise the changing images on the illuminating her pale face. Margaret- barely sees her, eyes riveted to the Almost lovingly dubbed by the Soviets The Iron Lady, she's also credited, with her friend Ronald Reagan, with a decisive role in the ending of the Cold War. Her supporters claim she transformed the British economy and reversed the country's post-war decline. Her detractors blame her savage public spending cuts and sweeping privatization of - moves like a dervish through the house, muting the television and turning off the last of the appliances- gradual silence descends until- takes in the image of herself on the mute screen, standing bewildered on the steps of Harley Street. (almost to self) don't recognize myself. The shelf of a bathroom cabinet. Shaving brush. Razor. Medicaments. begins to pull them all off the shelves. Am out of the doghouse yet? Then a pair of glasses. More gently, hand reaches into the cupboard and takes the glasses in her hand. lies in bed, book in her lap, beside her reading the paper. She closes the book and pulls off her reading glasses. They're unveiling that portrait of me at Number 10 next month. The invitation's on the mantelpiece. So there'll be Churchill, Lloyd George and me. Just the three of us. said didn't want any big fuss but they insisted.. Lovely little article in The Telegraph... The Woman Who Changed the Face of History.. Voices from the past intrude - Less than two years ago, the Prime Minister quoted St. Francis and talked about bringing faith, hope and harmony to this country. suddenly reaches out a hand, her hand shaking- Denis? She turns in bed. Sudden panic, is gone- chamber as sits, facing the labour leader, grips his paper, mid speech- Can the Right Honourable Lady deny, that having brought about the highest level of unemployment since 1934- bides her time on the front bench, waiting her turn, surrounded by her including and The biggest fall in total output in steel and coal production in one year since 1931. And the biggest collapse in industrial production since 1921. remains seemingly calm and serene, and yet one hand quietly grips the bench, her wedding ring tapping against the wood nervously. Can she also accept that her free market economics designed to create a growing middle class ensures that the rich get richer and the poor are irrelevant! rising roar of voices - Maggie Maggie Maggie! Out Out Out! Maggie Maggie Maggie! Out Out Out! in her car driving through the blur of furious You're supposed to be a mother! You're not a mother, you're s monster! You're a monster! on a button - The and of a needle pulling taut on a thread. stands, swathed in a glittering long dinner dress, a stitching a stray button on the front of the bodice on her dress. Geoffrey Howe stands nearby in a dinner jacket. May we have a word, Prime Minister? bank of including and gather before her. Yes, but in order to arrive at the palace on time, Geoffrey and are will be walking out of that door in 15 minutes. As you can see - know you're running late Margaret, but we have to address this situation in light of tomorrow's blistering press coverage. Blistering! The knives are out. Your draft budget's been leaked, Geoffrey, they are baying for our blood! Michael we can't possibly buckle at the first sign of difficulty. The of PRIOR's hand on unkempt hair- No one is saying we have to buckle. But is this really the time to make these spending cuts in the middle of one of the deepest recessions this country has ever experienced? We need a plan of action, Margaret. Absolutely. strategy. We must be armed. Agreed. stiffens, the needle momentarily hovering mid stitch as shifts a little- The resumes sewing- There's a perception, Margaret rightly or wrongly, that we are now completely out of touch with the country. The patronizing tone inflames her. Really. (beat) How much is a pack of Lurpak? Lurpak? Butter, Francis. (silence) Forty two pence. Anchor butter is forty pence. Flora margarine, still the cheapest, is thirty eight pence. can assure you am not out of touch. Another - - whispers the words: "Grocer's Daughter" - as a put down. The men smirk. has caught the moment. sudden flash of the pretty girls in the Grantham Street long ago, laughing at her. What - did you say? makes a gesture. Nothing. Nothing, Prime Minister. is furious. Don't try to hide you opinions. Goodness me, I'd much rather you were honest and straightforward about them - instead of continuously and damagingly leaking them to the press. Well? MARGARET's eyes travel around the room in waiting- Well, people can't pay their mortgages. The manufacturing industry is practically on its knees. Honest, hard-working, decent people are losing their homes. It's terribly shameful. The point is, Prime Minister, that we must moderate the pace - - if we're even to have a hope of winning the next election- Quite right. Ah. Worried about our careers, are we? They make noises - to the effect that nothing could be further from the truth. But has their measure. Gentlemen, if we don't cut spending we will be bankrupt. Yes the medicine is harsh but the patient requires it in order to live. Shall we withhold the medicine? No! We are not wrong. We did not seek election and win in order to manage the decline of a great nation. The people of this country chose us because they believe we can restore the health of the British economy and we will do just that! Barring a failure of nerve. The - looks at them in a cold fury... Anything else? nods to the seamstress, dismissing her- Thank you. You saved the day once again, Crawfie, you're an angel. straightens her cuff, testing the button, as the meeting slowly disbands and the move away. You can't close down a discussion because it's not what you wish to hear. don't expect everyone just to sit there and agree with me. But what kind of leader am if don't try to get my own way - to do what know to be right. Yes. But Margaret, one must be careful of testing one's colleagues' loyalty too far. glances up watching the disappearing, in whispered conversation, like conspirators. Rioting in Brixton, burning cars, huge civil unrest - We are now one split nation, with a huge gulf dividing the employed from the unemployed. Protest marches, `People's March for Jobs', `No pit closures" - The Thatcher plan is to break the Trade Union movement. There must be closures of uneconomic coal mines, we seek only an efficient industry. violent clashes between protesting miners and police - The miners are being starved back to work, the need is desperate! sweeping along an endless corridor, surrounded by her cabinet, hard on her heels. and talking, they hang on her every word. There are those who would say hold back, there are those who would make us retreat - Margaret mid speech. But we shall never give in to them. We shall never waver, not for a second, in our determination to see this country prosper once again. The party faithful erupt in cheers, seconded by all Margaret's courtiers on the platform. and above all applauding as if their lives depended on it. sits clutching the sink, a light sweat breaking across her forehead. She looks up- car bomb has exploded outside Harrods department store, killing six people and injuring 71. Eleven soldiers died today when two bombs were detonated during military parades in Hyde Park and Regent's Park. Seven horses also died in the blasts. bombed buildings, horses lying dead in the street, an banner. The have claimed responsibility. lost in restless sleep- graffiti scrawled on a wall, paramilitaries fire guns, sirens wail. Margaret on the podium. And now, it must be business as usual. in pyjamas, brushes his teeth in the bathroom. He glances at through the open door as she sits, still in evening dress, working on her speech. Come on love, get to bed. don't know why you do this to yourself every year, it's a speech at conference, not the Magna Carta! She looks up, distracted. Time to call it a day, darling. It's ten to three, for God's sake. know, I'm coming Nearly there - An almighty explosion rips through the room; wood, glass, furniture splinters, curtains flay from the walls. The fall of plaster, devastating, the hotel room obliterated, reduced to a smoking, dusty rubble. stands ghostlike, covered in debris. (calling out) Denis! searching through the haze of fallen plaster, covered with dust, slowly clearing to reveal- (more desperate) Denis- there you are. Are you alright? ghostlike, covered in dust, still in his pyjamas, holding up an obliterated pair of shoes. My shoes! Beyond, the wall of the bathroom entirely blown away - The of gulls- Chaos outside the Grand Hotel in the aftermath of the bomb. The of and sit in their car, looking out in silent shock at the devastated Grand hotel, reflected on the glass of the car windows. That's when thought I'd lost you. wakes with a start, confused and fumbles for the telephone by her bed- (picking up phone) Mark?... Hello darling... No, I'm fine... I'm very well... squints, fingers fumbling for watch. How is... How's... Sarah?... And the children..? sits up - ...Oh... You can't... That's a pity... was hoping to see you... No really darling... That's fine... Of course... another time... Lovely Darling... Can't wait...Yes... suddenly relents, a flicker of sudden and urgent need, caught in her eyes- (beat) Mark? Silence- gone. hangs up, stares at- Whistle Happy Tune from the King and just audible- stands in the doorway, a jaunty Whistle Happy Tune" seeping from the television. That was Mark. Not able to come. (cutting in) Boy's always going Well it costs him a great deal to fly everyone up here. There you go, making excuses for him. Now look where it's got you. stands dressed in dinner jacket and bow tie as he reads the back of "The King and Did you know Yul Brynner was a gypsy from Vladivostok? Yes. He moved to Paris when he was fourteen. He played the King of Siam 4,625 times on the London and Broadway stages. What are you doing? (turning round shaking a cocktail) One likes to make an effort. snifter? You're dead, Denis. Ah. Well, if I'm dead... who are you talking to? Shall we dance ? He takes Margaret in his arms. The music changes to `Shall we Dance' from `The King and as takes a confused in his arms and begins an expansive waltz round the room. The room turns. dancing with the Now its dancing with again. loses his footing, and lurches towards the desk where her eyes fall on figurines of Falklands soldiers. She stares hard. The Falkland islands, the British Colony in the South Atlantic, has fallen. Argentina claims its marines went ashore this morning as a spearhead to capture key targets, including the capital, Port Stanley. sits, composed, staring up at a phalanx of military men and her ministers. Gentlemen, the Argentinian Junta - which is a fascist gang - has invaded our sovereign territory. This cannot be tolerated. May make plain my negotiating position. will not negotiate with criminals or thugs. The Falkland islands belong to Britain, and want them back. Gentlemen, need you to tell me today if that is possible. Possible... just, Prime Minister. We can have a Task Force ready to sail in forty-eight hours. is visibly stunned. Forty-eight hours? But - But? We have a very narrow weather window. We can't fight in winter down there. Nobody can. If we are going, we have to go now. at her desk. Why were the islands left without any naval protection? In the last round of Defence cuts we judged the risk of invasion to be small. Did we? And if you remember, Prime Minister, you agreed that we should reduce the naval presence in the area to an absolute minimum. taps her fingers against the map, with growing irritation. sits alone. is under attack. Margaret, the cost of sending 28,000 men and a hundred ships twelve thousand miles, almost to Argentina, will be absolutely crippling. don't think we should be worrying about money at this point, Geoffrey. We can't afford to go to war. sits alone. We have to go now. The government has now decided that a large task force will sail, as soon as all preparations are complete. the Task Force sets sail. paces, deep in thought. Prime Minister we do still have three weeks before our ships reach the islands. All we're saying is that we shouldn't give up on trying to find a diplomatic solution. tea trolley and an American entourage surge down a Downing Street corridor. The Secretary of State has arrived, Prime Minister. Haig and Margaret sit facing each other, flanked by senior ministers. So you are proposing to go to war over these Islands. They're thousands of miles away, a handful of citizens, politically and economically... insignificant, if you'll excuse me - Just like Hawaii, imagine. I'm sorry? 1941, when Japan attacked Pearl Harbour. Did America go cap in hand and ask Tojo for a peaceful negotiation of terms? Did she turn her back on her own citizens there because the islands were thousands of miles from mainland United States? No, no, no! We will stand on principle or we shall not stand at all. But Margaret with all due respect when one has been to war.... With all due respect sir, have done battle every single day of my life, and many men have underestimated me before. This lot seem bound to do the same but they will rue the day. turns to a tea trolley close by- Now, shall be mother? looks confused, lifting the teapot- Tea, Al, how do you take your tea? Black or white? murmuring messages quietly to Male lips to male ears, something has seen all her life. and stand near the naval fleet sails towards the Falklands. map of South Georgia and the Falkland Islands. Model boats sit on the water, flags sit on the islands. Argentinian flags. stares at the map. whispered message to one of the He moves a model boat on the map a few inches, leading a fleet of smaller model boats. The Argentinian ship the General Belgrano and her escorts are pursuing course 273 degrees toward the Argentinian mainland. We are tracking it with our submarine Conqueror. He points to a model submarine at some distance from the Argentinian boats. Is this ship a threat? Both of these ships are carrying Exocet missiles, Prime Minister. Just yesterday they launched- then aborted- an attack inside the exclusion zone. There is a risk they could try it again. The Belgrano is sailing directly away from the islands. Can it really be regarded as a threat ? She's been changing course continually. There's a strong possibility that they're attempting a pincer movement on our carrier group. advise that we engage them: hit the Belgrano as a warning to the others. Send them all back to port. turns to and It'll play badly internationally. We'll be seen as aggressors. She stares at the map once more. One of the men supervising the map moves the model of the Belgrano a fraction further North. This will be an escalation, Prime Minister. She looks to If there is to be an escalation, it's better that we start it. It is steaming away, Prime Minister. Everyone is staring at Even the bustling in the background have stopped and are listening. Male faces turned to her. She herself seems caught in a pincer movement between the politicians and the servicemen. Sink it. Footage flash of a torpedo cutting through the water. thunderous explosion. Flashes of television images- striated and blurry- the Belgrano listing in the water. Reports of the sinking read out by the MOD's Announcer. and the Falklands figurine, silhouetted against the dawn light. Footage now - we see a man on fire, burning. mixing in and out. ... Sheffield, a Type 42 destroyer, was attacked and hit late this afternoon by an Argentine missile... ...it is seen as a retaliation for the sinking of the General Belgrano, in which over 300 Argentinian sailors died... eyes shining, as if with tears. soft knocking at the door. She dabs them away quickly. Prime Minister - enters. Latest casualty figures from the Sheffield. He hands her a piece of paper. (sotto voce) must write to them. Prime Minister? The families. must write to them... at her desk, looks up at Pym. Foreign Secretary... I've just been briefed by Admiral Fieldhouse. He told me bluntly that if the Argentinians are prepared and willing to risk their aircraft, they have enough missiles to cripple most of our fleet. beat. President Reagan and President Bellaunde of Peru have some new proposals for the peace plan - (sharply) The peace plan? There will be no appeasement. This is a war. war they started and by God, we will finish. Shall tell you what I'm going to write to every single one of these families, these heartbroken families? am going to tell them that no British soldier will die in vain for the Falklands. muddy mass graves as the Falklands dead are buried. Lieutenant Colonel Jones. Captain Wood. Captain Dench. Lieutenant Farlaine. Corporal Hardman. Corporal Sullivan. Corporal Briar. writes to each of the families. As the only Prime Minister in the history of our country who is also a mother with a son of my own, can imagine your agony, and your grief. troops march through barren landscapes, helicopters hover, a British flag. Prime Minister, we have secured the beachhead - The Argentinian troops are demoralized and ill equipped...The paratroops have taken Goose Green... Shortly after dark last night, our forces executed what our Commander in Chief has called a brilliant surprise night attack. sits at a desk in Downing Street, listening to the news reports. hand turns off the radio. Thatcher, bed. He heads down the hall, following behind. From their new positions, our forces can see large numbers of Argentine soldiers retreating and streaming back into Port Stanley. Our forces are moving forward to exploit their success. Victory! The Union Jack is raised over Port Stanley. The task force return to England to scenes of jubilation. Embraces, balloons, joyful embraces. peering out, a sea of union jacks and bunting. Cheers, the street lined as the car pulls into Downing Street- The blur of noise, cheering, jostling banners the shroud of black uniforms suddenly encasing the car, blocking out the light- The jaunty distant sound of a military band playing- Well done, The car door swings open- of just audible far off, as steps out into the street, the follows her out peering up at- leaning out of No 10 windows, waving flags and cheering- MARGARET's gaze lingering on and amongst them, smiling with congratulations, clearly now part of the victory celebrations. We congratulate the men and women of the armed Forces for their skill, bravery and loyalty to this country. Prime Minister's Questions. is at the Dispatch Box fighting it out with We were faced with an act of unprovoked aggression and we responded as we have responded in times past: with unity, strength and courage, sure in the knowledge that though much is sacrificed, in the end, right will prevail over wrong. Huge cheers and "hear hears" from the Conservative benches. shifts uncomfortably on the benches opposite. She is unstoppable. And put it to the Honourable Member opposite that this is not a day for him to carp, find fault, demand inquiries- they will happen can assure him of that for we have nothing to hide- no, this is a day to put difference aside, hold one's head high and take pride in being British. Barnstorming cheers. We see utterly outmaneuvered by her speech. The Labour benches sit silent. springs in the air wearing a paper union jack hat, blowing a party hooter. Well that paid off old girl! Your ratings soared! From the most hated Prime Minister of all time to the nation's darling...The world was at your feet, and Britain was back in business! glittering ballroom- waltzing, caught in REAGAN's arms, fleetingly passing- looking on, from the sidelines, drink in hand. motorcade streaks through the rainy street, Union Jack flying. shakes hands with Indira Ghandi. Denis is presented with the pink turban. Newspaper headlines scream triumphant on the podium at party conference. shakes hands with Gorbachev. The Berlin Wall comes down. The Berlin Wall has fallen. The gates have opened! The police are making no attempt to stop people as they go through. Headlines: dancing with of stands on the touchlines toasting them - a fruity cocktail in his hand. hurries down the stairs, her cabinet in tow. don't agree in any measure! But Prime Minister the question of the European single currency will come up. don't think the country is ready for it yet. But we cannot bury our heads in the sand... lot of Conservative MP's and Ministers are saying - journalist stands outside the Commons making his report. - that there must be a change in that style of management. That Mrs Thatcher must listen more, and on occasion, give in. moving swiftly down the hall, leaving her cabinet in her wake. The point is, Prime Minister, don't think we can sell the idea of a tax that asks everyone to pay the same. Our policies may be unpopular, but they are the right policies. Prime Minister just don't think we can ask the poorest of the poor to pay the same amount of tax as a multi-millionaire. seated at the wide cabinet table surrounded by a subdued Most of the familiar old faces - etc. All now gone. the last enduring minister. She casts a gimlet-eye over the around her. There it is again! Why not? Because - Because people... on the whole... think that the tax is manifestly unfair. Nonsense. Arrant nonsense. This is a simple proposition. In order to live in this country, you must pay for the privilege- something, anything! If you pay nothing, you care nothing. What do you care where you throw your rubbish? Your council estate is a mess, your town, graffiti, what do you care? It's not your problem , it's somebody else's problem- it's the government's problem! problem is, some of you, is that you haven't got the courage for this fight. You haven't had to fight hard for anything. It's all been given to you- and you feel guilty about it! Well, may say, on behalf of all those who had to fight their way up, (and who don't feel guilty about it) we resent those slackers who take, take, take, and contribute nothing to the community! And see the same thing, the same cowardice in our fight within the European Union, to retain British sovereignty of Britain, the integrity of the pound! Some of you want to make concessions. hear some of you agree with the latest French proposals. (beat) Well, why don't you get on a boat to Calais? Yes, why don't you put on a beret, and pay 85% of your income to the French government! She has subdued them utterly. The silence is terrible. Right. What can we realistically hope to achieve by the end of session, Lord President? And why have we not made more progress to date? What is that? Is that the timetable? haven't seen that. May see it? Here it is, Prime Minister. Of course. pushes the papers over to her. She picks up a pencil, starts to read. The watch as, quickly, she starts to score through the words. The wording is sloppy here, and here. If you say so. do say so. It's merely a first draft... looks down at the paperwork. This is ridiculous. There are two "T's" in "committee"! She presses so hard that her pencil breaks, so she shoves the paper back towards him, stabbing a finger at the offending word. This is shameful. Shameful! can't even rely on you for a simple timetable! Are you unwell? Yes you are unwell. Give me the pencil, give it to me! snaps her fingers at gesturing for his pencil, scratching away, ringing the offending word again and again. The stare at the scene appalled, utterly and wretchedly embarrassed. If this is the best you can do had better send you to hospital, and shall do your job as well as my own and everyone else's. Gentlemen. As the Lord President has come to cabinet unprepared, am obliged to close this meeting. She waits for them to take their leave, but they sit there, frozen. Good morning! Slowly, the men gather their papers and file out of the room, leaving alone. She sits, gathering herself, hands shaking. grimacing with one eyeball blinded and the other detached and hanging bloody on a cheek. (chanting) Can't pay, won't pay! Can't pay, won't pay! Can't pay, won't pay! peering out- slapping the glass as they pass, the sense of the car being attacked. The smear of smashed egg against the window screen. Out... Out... Out... sinks back into her seat as the car, is jostled either side by a blur of colour, the bang of fists against glass, the roar of the crowd - Relentless images of violence over this. Mass riots. charging on trying to force the back. One of them - a - caught out, goes down with her placard, is trampled beneath the horses' hooves, horribly. with blood streaming down their faces. Banners - Maggie... Maggie... Maggie. Out... out... out. With a of flames the north side of Piccadilly Circus goes up in flames. Smoke and blood and fire everywhere. Late afternoon- sits, silently working. enters, barely looks up from working- Geoffrey- My letter of resignation. slides a letter down on her desk- looks down at the thick envelope. Our differences, I'm afraid, cannot be reconciled. resumes working- waits and waits and waits- The of MARGARET's pen, she works on, refusing to stop for him. Howe stands in Parliament, reading his resignation speech: have done what believe to be right for my party and my country. The time has come for others to consider their own response to the tragic conflict of loyalties with which have myself wrestled for perhaps too long. walks alone down the hall. Geoffrey's speech in the House of Commons was devastating. - just couldn't take any more of the bullying. MARGARET's as she moves along the corridors of power. He was almost inviting someone to challenge her for leadership of the party. Fellow unfamiliar backbenchers, the men in suits, all seem to avoid her gaze...then in conversation with abruptly terminated, as both men acknowledge her... She behaved appallingly. wouldn't have spoken to my gamekeeper like that. don't think she can survive this. stands, watching the evening news, just visible on the screen- I'm here to announce my decision to put my name forward as leader of the Conservative party. have nothing but admiration for our Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, but believe our party and our country need a new leader. turns to who stands, clearly shocked, worst fears confirmed. It's extraordinary. The rules of the Conservative Party make it possible for Conservative MP's to depose a sitting Prime Minister. and on the sofa. She unwraps a sweet, eyes locked on the am the Prime Minister. Turning to Denis. (offering the packet) Sweetie? in the moonlight - As Conservative MP's gather in Westminster to discus who they will back in the leadership contest, the Prime Minister said she would not be diverted from critical international affairs With the Eiffel Tower illuminated behind him, Trevor MacDonald makes his report. Tonight in Paris Mrs Thatcher is among thirty four world leaders who came together to celebrate the end of the Cold War and herald the start of a peaceful new age of East/West cooperation. magnificent painted hallway- sweeping away from a dining room, regal in evening dress. - news journalist makes his report. There's a general feeling that Mrs Thatcher is going to win on the first ballot. We're going to put it to bed tomorrow night, is how one of her campaign staff puts it. walks through a grand hall with her fellow and of the world, a lone woman amongst a sea of men. really think you should come home and defend yourself old girl. Heseltine is campaigning ferociously. do think my time is best spent seeing an end to the Cold War, don't you? After all this time they know what stand for. Will she, or will she not, be in the job tomorrow? - a formal dinner, flanked by bow- tied Prime Ministers and Heads of State. Margaret, they can't touch you. - walking along trying to hide their features from prying eyes. Mrs Thatcher has failed to win enough votes to secure an outright win in the leadership contest and must now decide whether to put her name forward for the second round. As Mrs Thatcher leaves Paris for London to make a last ditch attempt to pull together support for her leadership, the ship may have sailed. pushes through the double doors into her dining room. Treachery! Her cabinet are all around her dining room table. There is no seat for her. She moves round the table. We will never win another election led by that woman. We need a leader who listens. This isn't about her, it's about the party. One must know when to go. The question is, how does anyone put it to her? Close on a minister's face in the dim light. If you were to stand, of course would vote for you Prime Minister She is at her desk in the in Chester Square as one minister after another in interchangeable glasses slide into the chair in front of her. - of course would vote for you Prime Minister but don't think you can win. The loyalty of my colleagues cannot be counted upon. It was the people who put me here - The loyalty of my colleagues cannot be counted upon. - it's up to them to tell me when to go. stands, watching the evening news. Margaret, you can't let them do this to you. Please, boss. looks at with quiet surprise, hears the desperation in his voice, the crack- They'll destroy you. looks at sees he is near to tears- Throw in the towel now, love. Don't let those bastards see you humiliated. You just won't win, darling. Not this time. Oh Denis. fingers touch hers, she looks at him, sees the tender concern in his eyes. smiles, determinedly steely under his gaze. 154 am the Prime Minister. 154 On her face as breaks through. sits alone on the front bench. stream of voices from the past - Order! Order! The Right Honourable gentleman is afraid! This is a naked strategy of closing some coal mines and then selling off - They believe in striking, believe in working! This is the woman who's watched ten men on hunger strike starve themselves to death and never flinched! Despicable and cowardly - Cynical Falklands war - More homeowners, more shareholders, more savings - The voices begin to blend into one another, white noise. sips a whisky. offer my resignation after eleven and a half extraordinary years - descends the stairs like an operatic heroine, her hand gripping the banister of the staircase. Below the Downing St staff waiting to say goodbye. Many are in tears. -proud to have left Britain in a much better state than when we took office. She passes the photographs of her predecessors and stops to receive a gift, opening it- What's this then? radio... How useful. She moves down the receiving line of staff. The floor is carpeted with roses. Men's wet eyes. The door ahead. She is crying. Finally reaching the door, stands bracing herself. Denis's hand on her shoulder standing behind. Steady, nods, bracing herself. hand on the door handle. As it swings open- stands staring at herself in the mirror. The greatest Prime Minister since Churchill deposed by a bunch of spineless pygmies! All those years of taking the tough decisions, does any of it matter now? It's all been turned to mush! What? lies on the bed behind her with the newspaper. By these fools! These lily-livered pinkos! These inept placators. Very good! These vacillators. Vacillators! Poll takers. Popularity seekers. So busy taking the pulse of the public! Weak - (pulling down a rack of Denis's black oxford shoes onto the floor) These...weak...weak...weak...wea.. .weak...Men! DENIS's clothes are all over the room and the main cupboard is open and empty apart from shoes. There are several bin liners already filled with clothes. Don't they know if you take the tough decisions, yes people will hate you today but they'll thank you for generations. Or forget you entirely and chuck you out with the rubbish! turns away from this thought and opens a last big chest of drawers. (seizing shirts and jerseys and putting them on the floor) All wanted was to make a difference in the world. And you did, love, you did. She sits at the end of her bed and opens a box she has found in Denis's cupboard. There is a programme from `The King and and a faded blue rosette from some long forgotten election campaign. small flyer `Margaret Roberts. Conservative Candidate for Dartford' and some childrens cards "to the world's greatest Daddy love Mark and Carol." All wanted was for my children to grow up well and be happy - happier than was certainly. And wanted you to be happy of course. Were you happy, Denis? Tell me the truth. There is no response. is momentarily lost in the room. Then, seized by some compulsion, she begins to pull out the rest of his clothes, shoving them into black bags. As shirts and trousers go in, quick flashes of Denis - His youthful face, smiling at her at the opera. Laughing on the beach in Cornwall. At the door of Number 10, smiling at her. Sharing her bed. looks up. Denis's suitcase is on the bed. His coat and hat lying beside it. She folds his dressing gown - the one from the bathroom hook - tenderly and puts it on the top of the case. Denis? Denis? And there he is by her side. Here's your bag. You're all packed, sorted. She walks him to the bedroom door and gives him a gentle kiss. starts to walk away. (seeing he is walking away in his socks) Denis wait...Where are your shoes? You can't go without shoes! Not yet. straightens his hat. Steady. Yes...Steady... Steady the buffs - Steady...Steady the buffs... heading out. 154d NO...Not yet...Denis. Wait...I 154d said don't want you to go yet. The endless corridor, calling after Denis...Please...No...Not...Don't. don't...I don't want to be on my own. turns back for a moment - You're going to be fine on your own, love. (beat) You always have been. calling out as reaches the window at the very far end of the house and appears to disappear into the white light- (calling out) Denis!! From above we see lying dead asleep on the bed on a pile of clothes. The bed is surrounded by bulging black bin bags. Mummy- looming over Margaret, looking horrified. My God, Mum. Are you alright? (opening the curtains) Mummy you should have called for help, silly old sausage. Have you not even been in your bed properly? You've done all this? Yes, all sorted. Finished. looks around her. Yes well don't worry about all this. June and will crack on with it. was just going to get dressed. ...Shall call someone, see if anyone can come over and do your hair? looks at her warmly. Oh. No, you do it. reacts, surprised but pleased. sit finishing a cup of tea. Hears Carol's bustle in the downstairs hallway. Right, I'm off June. `Bye. She stands, picking up the cup. From behind- Oh let me do that, Margaret. MARGARET's turns for a moment- It is shakes her head. No, dear, I'll do it. Carol said you might go to the House of Lords today? No no. I'm not going anywhere. The sound of hot water running. of a teacup- stands, washing up a tea cup. The of her wet cloth, working on a stubborn tea stain, puncturing the silence. The sound of birdsong and children playing drifts from the street outside. sets the cup aside, turns and walks out of the room, and out of sight. Iron Lady, The :