"Made" -- by Jon Favreau - - large crowd has gathered to watch two square off in a temporary ring in the center of a converted banquet hall. One is the other is They are drawn together to start the bout by a bell and a hand gesture as the backs away. Immediately the two fighters unload a relentless barrage of Neither man is holding back, and the punches all find purchase in the swelling faces of their opponent. The crowd rises to its feet in appreciation of this rare level of competition in the lower strata of the heavyweight division. - - - Bobby drives Ricky home through the winding twists of LA's landmark canyon. Both their faces are swollen, verging on the grotesque. Bobby drives a black Special Edition 1979 Trans Am with the gold Firebird stenciled across the hood. The car is not in great shape, but in its day ruled the road. Hawaiian mini warrior mask hangs from the rear view. The T-top is out, and Ricky struggles to light his cigarette in the wind. He finally ignites the whole book of matches in frustration, lights up, then tosses it out. It lands, still flaming, at the base of a 'No Smoking in the Canyon' sign. They drive down the palm tree lined stretch of road bordering Beverly Hills. They turn East on Sunset Boulevard. The Strip lights are first flickering to life. - - The opening dies away as Ricky sits beside Bobby. The neighborhood is awful. The light of the corner liquor store and a menthol cigarette billboard make up for the broken street lamps. Ricky smooths out his running suit and steals an instinctive cautionary look, scanning all the blind spots for predators. The swelling has now truly set in. He's a mess. Did Max mention anything about any jobs? What about boxing? What about it? What are you saying? You said if you didn't have a winning record after eleven fights, you'd talk to Max. So? So, it was a draw. Yeah, I'm 5-5 and 1. So, it's not a winning record. It's not losing record. That's not what you said. You said if you didn't have a winning record- Don't be shitty. How am being shitty? Don't be shitty. wouldn't keep bugging you, but you said he said he would have a job for us. I'm not gonna bring it up to him. Of course don't want you to bring it up to him... But if it comes up... I'll page you. Yeah. Page me. You know the number? Yeah. know the number. Cause if you don't know the number, can page you with the number so you'll have the number. know the number. I'll page you with the number. I'll see you later. What time you done? got no idea. Ask if he said anything to her. will. I'll page you with the number. Bye. He drives off. Ricky checks his pager, still furtively scanning the street. - - - Bobby pulls up in front of the quaint Spanish Colonial two-flat. He bounds up the stairs to the upper unit. - He lets himself in, searching for his girlfriend. The apartment is Z-Gallery, with a few accents of Bobby's Honey? Where were you? He finds her in the bedroom. is a knockout. Too pretty. The pretty that makes a woman a full-time job. What's worse is she's decked out like a whore. She's wearing slutty lingerie covered by a bland terry cloth bathrobe. Her ridiculously long legs are garnished with candy-apple porn star sky high heels. Bobby watches with cultivated patience as she applies tasteless amounts of make-up from a Mac case the size of a tackle box. She's in a hurry. (swallowing utter contempt) So, what kind of gig is this? Easy night. Bachelor party. Can we give Wendy a ride? No. What kind of bachelor party? The easy kind. They're young and rich and well mannered. She turns to look at him and reacts to his horrifying appearance. (continues) Oh my god. What happened? draw. What makes you think they're well mannered? Bobby, this is a plumb gig. It's a bunch of young agents and it's at a restaurant. It's gonna be easy and we'll make a lot of money. don't like you working with Wendy. Why are you working with Wendy? They requested her. It was her gig. Max put me on as a favor. Some favor. hope they know you're not like Wendy. Oh, please. If they asked for her, they're probably expecting blowjobs all around. Will you cut it out! Get ready, we're already late. Who's watching the baby? She's downstairs with Ruth. Get ready. I'm ready. Bullshit. These are classy customers. You can't show up all fucked up with a Fila running suit on. They're not too classy to have tits rubbed in their face. She rises and swaps her robe for a floor length overcoat. God, is she hot. Stop. love you. She leans in for a kiss. He lets his anger melt. He leans in to kiss her. She gives him last minute cheek to save the perfection of her sparkling twenty minute lips. (continues) Let's go. He follows, slightly slighted. - - As the couple hurries down the stairs, The face of a peeks out the first floor window. This is Jess' daughter. Her age is somewhere between Paper Moon and Jerry Maguire. She watches without expression as her mom leaves for work. - - They valet the car and approach the members only cigar lounge. Bobby opens the door for her. - - An attractive female sees Bobby's undesirable appearance. May help..? She then sees Jessica and guesses her occupation. (continues) Oh, hi. They've been expecting you. Take the elevator upstairs. You can change in the card room. - - They stand side by side in silence as the lift rises. Jess adjusts her bosom. Bobby continues to percolate. His pager goes off. He recognizes the number. You talk to Max today? I'm not gonna mention Ricky to him. Don't expect you to mention it to him. I'm just saying, if- The only way he'll go with Ricky is if you're in too. Well, that's not gonna happen. Fine. You want to help Ricky, talk to Maxie yourself. feel weird asking him. You shouldn't. He likes you. just wish he never brought it up. Ricky won't shut up about it. Forget Ricky. You should be glad Max got you driving for me. (then) No coke tonight. (no answer) Right? Leave me alone. haven't touched anything in months. The elevator door opens, and a room full of horny young and see Jessica and cheer. She smiles and drops her coat. The crowd can't believe their luck when they see how hot she is. Bobby's heart sinks. He picks up her coat and walks to the bar as the men wave bills at the love of his life. - - - Bobby settles into a bar stool, watching the action from a distance. a slutty Pam Anderson pre-tit-removal wannabe, is already bouncing her ass ghetto-style in a young agent's face. The crowd gravitates to the new meat like a pack of ravenous dingoes. beautiful young with her hair tied back drops a cocktail napkin in front of Bobby. She sees his bruises. Did you get the license plate of the truck? (unamused and preoccupied) Johnny Red rocks. in his late twenties slithers up beside him. His name is and he seems to like gold. He puts down his empty highball glass. Martel's and coke. One ice cube. In a snifter this time. Snifter are for warm drinks- Yeah, snifters are for cognac- When served warm- What's the matter? You ain't got no snifters in this motherfucker? We have snifters Then put my Martel's in a snifter. She walks away to get him his snifter. (continues) Like I'm gonna break her goddamn snifter. Bobby downs his drink as he watches Jess give a in a suit a lap dance. He gets a little frisky, grabbing her ass cheeks. Bobby begins to Jess circumvents any confrontation by smiling and twisting away his wrists. She throws Bobby the 'Don't worry, got it' look. He sits. Horrace pokes his nugget encrusted fingers into his sock, counting a stack of bills. (continues) It's already been a hell of a night. Where you been? had a fight up at Sportsman's. Well, you look it. You win? Draw. What's your record at? 5-5-1. Yeah, well you let me know when you wanna start makin the real money. Yeah, sure. I'm serious. Humping sheetrock and driving on weekends got to get to you after a while. Might be nice to buy your lady something. All it takes is one fight. Wendy is now being dry humped by two guys. Jessica looks over at her, and is concerned. Lines of protocol are definitely being crossed. Jess' horny guy makes a bold move, jamming his face in her cleavage. In a split second, Bobby has crossed the room and has him by a wrist. The guy is surprised by Bobby's presence and grotesque appearance. Whu- There's no touching. But what about them? don't give a shit. work for her. No touching. She hands Bobby a stack of sweaty bills. He walks away, zipping the roll into his pocket. When he arrives at the bar, a drunk is having a quiet conversation with Horrace. Horrace looks around, answers, and the executive picks quite a few hundreds out of his wallet. Horrace walks him back to Wendy. Bobby grinds his teeth and points to his empty glass. The bartender pours and watches the interaction as Wendy walks off with the executive. The party howls as they leave the room for some privacy. (sarcastic) That's not allowed. Bobby downs another drink. Things are now heating up for Jess as mob mentality takes hold. She squirms. We with Bobby's face as he bee lines for the feisty horny guy, who holds Jess' hips as he grinds her. said no touching. Look, man, I'm the bachelor, alright? gave her a hundred bucks in tips alone- Get your hands off of her. Dude, listen, man. I'm cool. How much for the treatment? Your dance is over. Come on, dude. The other chick's giving my best man a blow job in the toilet. know the drill, I'll wear a rubber- Bobby cracks his face apart with an uppercut. Another guy rises in protest and is on his ass with a broken nose before he can speak. God damn it... Bobby drags his girl by the arm to the men's room. He kicks open the door and grabs Wendy, who is doing coke off a mirror with her john. He drags the women out. Horrace disappears. calls to the bartender. Call the police. She picks up the phone, but doesn't dial. She hides a smile. Bobby drags the women down the staircase. - - Bobby drives, eyes locked on the road. Jess is beside him, Wendy's in the back. What the fuck was that about? You wanna get us busted? If Max found out you were turning tricks- got news for you, Bobby, he don't give a shit. Bullshit. You think he don't know? give him his cut of seventeen hundred, think he knows can't make that lap dancing. No more. Bobby... Fuck you! No more for you. You won't be Jess' driver for shit when Maxie hears this shit happened again. Nobody's fuckin talking to you. And how could you fucking leave Horrace hanging? got news for you, Horrace got his ass out of there before you did. Bullshit. What? You don't think Horrace would leave your white ass in there to hang? Alright. Enough already. Let's get some food. better call Maxie and tell him what happened before he hears it on his own. - - of the upscale renovation. - - Bobby is part of a large midway through an Amalfi Drive renovation. He trowels a thin coat of plaster on a kitchen wall. Ricky drags his ass as he sweeps up dust and diamond wire scraps. The two of them are swollen to hell as they work side by side in the upscale remodel. So I'm like, 'Maybe I'm not on the list cause I'm not a fuckin Persian.' thought you hate that club. do. It's a fuckin Persian Palace. Then why do you try to get in? Fuck them. (hears something) Shhh... The walks in with a and their six year old The decorator is irritating. The husband is a shlubby Jew. His wife is a hot shiksa. The kid looks like he might already be gay. The guys work diligently and quietly. And as you can see, we're a little behind in here. We always knew the kitchen would be the trouble spot. When will it be ready? Are we still shooting for Christmas? really want Christmas in the new house. We're trying. Unfortunately the trades are stacking a bit. But look at this Italian plaster job. The color skim-coat will go on next. It looks great. Ricky sneaks some eye contact to the wife. She almost smiles as he peers at her with his battle scarred face. The little boy pokes his finger into the wet plaster. Bobby throws him a look. The kid just stares back like he owns him. Did you see the stove yet? The Viking was delivered? Yes, of course. It's in the garage. They leave. Bobby repairs the plaster damage. You see that, bro? She wants to fuck me. Ricky's pager goes off. (continues) You see that? My shit's blowing up. He looks around and grabs the wall phone and dials. Come on, man. Not with the owners here. (phone) Hey, baby... Nothing. What are you doing..? Yeah, I'll probably cut out early... In walks the plastering contractor and their boss. Watch out, the fag's here. (seeing Ricky) Get off the fucking phone. Then he wants to know why he's still sweeping floors. Bobby, you got a minute? Bobby looks concerned. Something's wrong. - - Bobby and Arthur stand by a gravel pile outside the huge remodel. Arthur looks around and they duck into his Suburban. Look, Bobby, don't know what happened, and don't want to know what happened, but something's up. What are you talking about? Maxie wants me to replace you on the job tomorrow. He wants you to come by the office today. They were grabbing her fucking ass- Hey. don't know, don't want to know. Far as I'm concerned, you're a good kid. got news, though, without you here can't keep on your friend. got enough people pretending to sweep. Do me a favor, Arthur, keep him on til see what's happening. Good luck. - - Bobby parks his car in the off street lot of Max's run-down industrial complex. Bobby walks past the many businesses that share the structure in tandem. working in an auto go about their business, but discreetly watch as the unfamiliar man passes. Bobby carries himself with the proper amount of ambivalence. He then passes a loading dock, which also has a secretive stench. Finally, he arrives at a above which is mounted a video camera, several generations past its prime. steel sign reads simply: and Contracting'. Bobby rings the bell and looks up to the surveillance camera. He is buzzed in. - - Bobby walks into an anticlimactically mundane office. The decor is sixties industrial gray. There is a waiting area next to a flimsy lucite partition/reception window, behind which is a desk. Behind the desk is the sixty-plus receptionist whose hair was recently 'set' and colored by her beautician. Security seems quite lax. Hi, uh, excuse me. I'm here to see Mr. Reuben. You're Bobby, right? Yeah. Good afternoon, Bobby. I'll let Max know you're here. She fiddles with her phone. Bobby sits at the kidney shaped coffee table. He thumbs through a copy of Redbook. (continues) He'll be a minute, hon. You want some coffee? No thank you. You sure? just made it. No, thank you. I'm good. Thanks. He calms his nerves by staring at a recipe for Strawberries Devonshire. - - Bobby walks in. He doesn't seem like he's been there before. The first thing that hits you is all the thoroughbred racing shit all over the place. Brass table top statues, pictures of jockeys with wreaths, hand-painted(!) portraits of horses faces. The second thing you notice is He's an off-the-rack East Coast Jew. He's got deep-set eyes and Abe Vigoda brows. He wears a golf shirt with a little penguin on it, and oversized reading glasses are perched on his balding head. His nose was broken in '63. He smiles broadly as Bobby enters. Bobby forces a relaxed smile. (on phone) Will ya calm down. Just calm down for a minute, Nadeleh. The money will be there. How do know? just know... Yes. Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying... You got my word. He hangs up his rotary phone and looks up to Bobby, who stands looking at the painting with his ears closed. (continues) You like the ponies? Sure. Yeah. You bet the ponies? Me? No. Not really. Smart. Hard as hell to handicap. You know what like? Hai Alai. Fast game. You know why like it? Why? It's fixed. That's the only way to win. sure thing. See that horse. The blaze. This one? Yeah. The blaze. bought her in '66. Hired a trainer, stall, whatever it was. That horse made me over a hundred grand. In 'sixties' dollars. You know what that is today? Pshhh... million. Easy. She was fast, huh? Never won a race. But it got me in with the trainer. We'd have a thing, don't remember, some fucking thing. The jockey would raise his whip, it meant the fix was in, we'd all go running. People get greedy. First they bet small, they keep their mouth shut. Within a month's time, everyone and their brother was in on it. The odds would drop, mean you could watch the goddamn board. It looked like a fuckin stopwatch, the odds would drop so fast. That's why they call it the smart money. Maxie laughs a genuine laugh. like you, kid. Why do you gotta make it so hard for me to take care of you? Mr. Reuben, swear to God, they were out of line. Last time, maybe, with the Puerto Ricans, but these were nice Jewish boys. They were out of line- They're fucking yeshiva buchas. You didn't have to tear up the goddamn place. You knocked out a guys teeth. That prick tried to get Jessica to blow him in the bathroom- Bobby, love Jessica like she's my own daughter. would kill anyone so much as lays a finger on her or her beautiful daughter, but that fucking pisher you socked in the mouth has the most expensive dentist in Beverly Hills and wants should buy him an implant. Your silverback horseshit's gonna cost me eight grand. I'll work it off. Not driving Jess, you won't. What? You're not driving Jess no more. Two strikes, Bobby, and this last one was big. The bachelor's father goes to my schul. So, that's it. I'm out? didn't say that. Then what are you saying? Bobby. You're a bull terrier and got you herding sheep. don't understand. It's my fault. send you out to watch scum drool all over the love of your life, then wonder why you seered. It's my fault. The tooth is on me. But no more. I'm 'reassigning' you. Don't want to drive another girl, Max. The only reason I'm - Who the fuck do you think you're talking to? This ain't a fucking democracy. You want out? No. Don't put food on you're table? sponsor your training, take care of your girl and her little baby. even pay that deadbeat friend of yours to push a goddamn broom. know. Now you wanna shut up and listen and hear what got to say? Yeah. Sorry. got a way we make everybody happy. Yeah. We try something out. There's someone I'm in business with named Ruiz. want you to accompany him on a drop. (off Bobby's look) Just as scenery. Ruiz has his boys. just want a big guinea with a busted up face to give him a deep bench. As a deterrent. Ruiz knows about this? Ruiz wants to go alone, but it's not up to Ruiz. It's up to me, and like a sure thing. Just go and we're square on the tooth. What about Ricky? He'd jump at the opportunity. Ricky? Ricky lost the truck' Ricky? You told him you liked him. That was before he lost my carpet cleaning van. He'll work it off. don't know the kid, and what little do scares me. He's good people, Mr. Reuben. swear. You vouch for him? The exchange has taken on a gravity. Yeah. Sure. (lighter) How 'bout this. If you're in, he's in. gotta tell you, Mr. Reuben, I'm not comfortable getting in any deeper. It's one thing to look after Jess... You're ready to move up. Christ, the way you busted up the place, you're doing worse already. May as well get paid instead of punished. It's not that don't appreciate the offer... Do me a favor. Think about it. Is that too much too ask? No. Okay. I'll think about it. - - of the mural for the football team. Bobby and Ricky walk past the empty stands watching the practice. Ricky drinks from a brown paper bag. We need guns. We don't need guns. think we might. He didn't say we need guns. He implied it. You don't imply about something like that. You lay it out on the table. Besides, I'm not taking the job. Ricky and Bobby watch the field from behind the concrete stairwell. This is the opportunity of a lifetime. What are you? Nuts? You've been waiting for this kind of opportunity. No. You've been waiting for this kind of opportunity. (sparking up) Damn right, have. You think like living on fucking Yucca? We do a good job on this, we're in. What happened to boxing? thought we made a vow. Shit. Who we kidding? know suck, and held you up for ten rounds- Bullshit... Please. got three inches on you. You wouldn't have landed a punch if didn't let you. You wanna go right now? I'll beat your ass- They slap-box in the empty stairs. This attracts the attention of the team and the who has walked up to the bottom of the stands. He calls out to them. Ricky! Bobby! Cut that shit out! They stop. Sorry coach. Sorry coach. How's the boxing going? Great. (shitty) He's 5-5-1. It takes time, Bobby. You always had the heart. What about me coach? Did have heart? The coach throws a look and walks back to practice, blowing his whistle. We look good this year. We'll kill Fairfax this year. still can't believe you missed the fucking team bus. Fuck him. Your first start at it's against Fairfax, and you miss the fucking bus. What are we delivering? We're not delivering shit. Ruiz is delivering something, and whatever it is is his business. Who is this fucking Ruiz? Maxie says he runs a tight ship. wouldn't fuck with him. Some Mexican? How much could he weigh? buck fifty, tops? I'd kick his fucking ass. (looks at watch) gotta pick up the baby. Why do you always get stuck taking care of the kid. like it. It's not even yours. like it. Bobby pulls into a bus stop in front of... - - Bobby's Trans Am is parked in the bus stop in front of the school. Ricky is on the phone, oblivious, as a black gives the car a ticket. Bobby walks down the walkway with Chloe, Jessica's daughter, and takes the ticket. - - He helps Chloe into the back. Chloe is silent and clutches dried macaroni glued to a paper plate and spray-painted silver. (re: ticket) Nice work. Shhh... (on cell phone) Yeah, yeah... No. No. I'll be there. (hangs up) You gotta get me to the Magic Castle at four. How'd you unlock my phone? tried your gotta kill an hour. Let's grab a beer. (to Chloe) Seat belt. Ricky's not wearing one. Ricky, can you put on a seat belt? No, man. It wrinkles my shit. Let's grab a fuckin beer- C'mon, man, not in front of the baby. Put on your seat belt before get another ticket. (clipping in) Jesus Christ, fine. Alright? See? Now everyone's got one on. (re: macaroni plate) What do you got there? elephant seal. Where's mommy? She's, uh, sleeping. It's daytime. Mommy works hard so you can have all your pretty clothes. Don't you like your pretty clothes? No. Show uncle Ricky what you made. Let's grab a beer. - - of the storefront ceramics workshop. - - Bobby paints a as Chloe does the best she can painting a frog in this do-it-yourself crafts store. Ricky looks out of place as he lights a Marlboro and bitches. Why can't we just grab a goddamn beer. promised Chloe we'd come here. Oh, give me a break. Look at her. She don't even know where the hell she is. She'd have more fun at Bordner's. I'm not taking her to a bar. Why not? grew up in bars. It's fun for a kid. approaches Ricky. Excuse me, there's no smoking in the store. Why? You serve food? No. Store policy. And you can't sit at a station without purchasing a ceramic. Could you believe this shit? Fine. Give me an ashtray. She brings him an unpainted ceramic ashtray from a display. What color paints would you like? Surprise me. He the out in the ashtray in the palm of her hand. She puts it down and leaves in a huff. (continues) I'm telling you, bro, we're on the verge. He's reaching out to us. Chloe stops painting. What's wrong, baby? He's not doing it. What? Did she say something? She wants you to paint the ashtray. I'm not painting the fu-, I'm not painting the ashtray. And frogs aren't purple. It's a poison arrow tree frog. Will you paint the damn thing. Why do you gotta be such a baby. Fine. Here, look. I'm painting. He haphazardly paints. Chloe resumes her task. Max won't let me drive Jess to dance anymore. Who's driving her? don't know. This paint sucks. The white shows through. - - Bobby pulls up. The of the Amalfi homeowner is precariously waiting and smoking. - - Right here's fine. Is that the woman from..? (smiles) She really liked the kitchen. He pops out, and the woman corrals him into a room. Bobby pulls away. - - - Jessica is half made up and half dressed. Little Chloe sits at the kitchen table twirling a spoon around her head. Her mom is haphazardly cooking a rushed supper. Bobby sits watching in his sweats in the adjoining living room. Here, sweety, mommy's in a hurry. don't want grilled cheese. Mommy has to work. hate cheese. Here, sweety. Don't be a little shit. Bobby approaches and takes the pan. He kisses Jess. Go finish getting ready. I'll take care of dinner. Yeah? You sure? Go. She shuffles off. Bobby puts up some water and heats a pan, adding oil. Garlic. You're not my daddy. You gonna bust my horns, or you want spaghetti want spaghettis. He pours in a can of sliced olives in with the capers. You better watch everything I'm doing. You know why? Because that's how you learn to cook. watched my grandma cook every night. That's how learned. If you can't cook, then you gotta go out to eat every night, then you spend all your money on food. And when you eat in restaurants, the cooks scratch their ass and touch the food. There's a knock on the door. Could you get that, baby? He does. It's Horrace. Bobby's surprised. What's up? Jess ready? You driving her? Yeah. She'll be out in a minute. Horrace tries to walk in. Bobby stands in the door. (continues) (firm) She'll be out in a minute. Jess hurries in, clipping earrings. Hiya Ho. Come in. I'll just be a minute. He throws Bobby a look as he slides by. Some shit smells good in this motherfucker. Bobby's cooking. He's the best. Whip him up something. Yeah. Whip me up something. I'm hungry as a motherfucker. Jess hurries out, brushing her hair. Watch your mouth in front of the baby. Bobby joins Jess in the back. - - Bobby enters, boiling over with opinions. No way that cocksucker's driving you. Maybe if you didn't go Rambo every time did a lapdance, you'd still be doing it yourself. Meantime, gotta feed my little girl. Maxie's fucking with me. He put you with the spook to get under my skin. Ho's a good guy- Ho's a fucking pimp! He encourages Wendy to turn tricks. And she's his fucking wife! Shhh. He'll hear you. Good! It'll save me the trouble of repeating myself. He's not fucking driving you! Listen to me, Bobby. This is my job. It puts a roof over me and my daughter and you for as long as you want to stay. want you to quit. Look at the bills. can't. I'm not gonna put my daughter through what went through. I'll support you. With what? Max offered to stake me. Yeah, well Max offers a lot of things. And got news for you. He's not the sweet old man you think he is. She crosses to the door, abruptly ending the discussion. Bobby grabs her. She needs a family. dad. I'll give her what you never had. Don't get my hopes up. If quit, what then? can't go through this again. She leaves the bedroom. - - Bobby enters to find Horrace eating the pasta and feeding Chloe the grilled cheese. C'mon girl. Eat up. Get away from her. (not backing down) Excuse-- (interrupts the conflict) C'mon, Ho. We're late. Yeah. We got money to make. See you around, Bobby. You make a good puttanesca. Mmmmm-mmmm. You should make that shit for a living. They leave. Bobby looks at Chloe, who spits out the cheese sandwich. The over a This is the last time speak to either of you in person about work related matters. All of our interactions in the future will be social. If you have any questions about anything work related, you will direct them to Ruiz. He has my full confidence. on... - - Max sits behind his desk as he briefs Bobby and Ricky. Bobby wears sweats. Ricky wears a suit. Max speaks with a directness suggesting gravity. He lays down two The two guys pick them up. Everything you need or need to know is in these envelopes. Do not- Ricky starts to tear his envelope open. (continues) open the envelopes until you have left this office. Ricky sheepishly draws a length of scotch tape from Max's desk set dispenser. Mid-pull, he becomes self-conscious and asks for permission. Can borrow a piece of- Go ahead. Open the fuckin things. You should each find fifteen hundred- They tear open the envelopes. Ricky's flies apart, sending a stack of crisp new Franklin falling from the air like a New England autumn morning. (continues) dollars in c-notes, a numeric pager, a double-A battery, and a first class round-trip ticket to We're going to New York? (with detectable condescension) Yes. You're going to New York. And the money. Where do we bring the money? That money is your per diem. And where do we bring it? It's ours. To keep? Yes, for expenses and such. Now, you'll be contacted on your pager as to where you should go. You each have been given an extra battery, so there is absolutely no excuse as to why a page would not be immediately returned. Am making myself abundantly clear? Yeah. Yeah. You will not carry any other pagers with you. You will not carry anything, for that matter, that have not just given you. Keys. What? What about my keys? You can carry your keys. You will not mention my name or imply that you are in my employ. You will not speak to anyone while you are working. When you are not working, you are considered to be 'on call' and available twenty-four hours a day. This means you will not get drunk or do anything that will prevent you from operating in a professional manner. There is already a number in your pager's memory. It is a car service. When they ask you what account, you will respond: 'Cardiff Giant.' They will pick you up and take you anywhere you need to go. In other words, there is no reason why you should not reach any destination that you will be called upon to reach within fifteen minutes. Do you see a pattern forming? Yes. Yes. What is it? You want- Not you. want Ricky to answer. get it. Tell me. Don't worry. get it. So tell me how it is. You want... Why are you picking on me? Because you lost my fucking carpet cleaning van and don't like you. Already told you, parked it for five minutes and locked it with the club- (interrupts) You want us to be wherever you want us to be, no questions asked. Yes. Goodbye. So, wait, what are we dropping off? Goodbye. - One of those cool over cranked tracking shots of the two guys walking purposefully that means we're really getting down to business now. cool song is playing. Ricky and Bobby each hold a manila envelope. - - Bobby lays his envelope on the x-ray conveyor belt. He walks through the metal detector. He passes the check. Ricky does the same. The goes off. Bobby looks concerned. Ricky pulls a ring of and drops it in the tray with a look to Bobby. Bobby looks relieved. Ricky is dressed to the nines: Dark blazer over a dark sweater. Bobby, more casual, wears dark slacks, a dark shirt and a gold horn around his neck. - 777 - They check their boarding stubs and sit in the plush first class seats in the almost empty cabin. Holy shit. Can you believe this? Pretty nice. See, man. Maxie fuckin takes care of you when you're in. Beats cleaning carpets. What's the movie? I'll get the girl. Nah, don't bother- Ricky rings the service chime. An attractive young arrives. She has a tray of champagne and orange juice. (turning off the service light) Champagne or orange juice? Ricky takes a champagne. She smiles and walks away. He stops mid-gulp and rings the bell again. She turns with a smile. (continues) (turning off the service light) Yes? Yeah, uh, what's the movie? It's in your copy of Hemispheres. believe it's Mickey Blue Eyes. Ugh... I'll get you the list of videos, if you don't mind, I'll offer the other passengers a beverage. Yeah, sure. How much are they? How much is what? The videos. You're up front. Everything's free up here. She smiles. He smiles. She walks away. He rings the bell again. She returns with a strained smile. (continues) (turning off the service light) Yes? Drinks are free, right? Yes. (waits) Would you care for another one? Yes. He takes another champagne and she crosses to leave. He calls after her. (continues) I'll have a Cutty on the rocks. She smiles and walks away. (continues) You hear that? You can drink as much as you want up here. We're not supposed to get drunk. We're on call. Unless we're supposed to whack out the fuckin' pilot, don't think we're gonna have to work in the next five hours. don't want to show up hammered. We're supposed to be representing Max. Oh, I'll represent alright. He rings the bell. Cut that shit out. She returns. Yes. Where do you live? (strained politeness) Excuse me. Where do you live? operate out of the Chicago O'Hare hub. Can help you with anything else? Yeah. Me and my boy here are gonna be in New York overnight. want you to pass the word around to the honeys back in business class that you all got plans for tonight. I'm talkin' a California style, Tupac, gangster pool party back at the hotel. And make that drink a double. She stares at him for a Listen, asshole, don't care if you're the Sultan of Brunei, no man talks to me like that. Now you can either learn some manners or can make a formal complaint to the airport authorities and we can sort this out while you're waiting stand-by for the next flight to Kennedy. She walks away. He turns off the bell light. - - The file off the plane and out of the gate. Bobby walks out purposefully. Ricky staggers slightly. He got his money's worth. Bobby checks his pager and Ricky scans the crowd through his buzz. Shit. No new pages. don't even know where the fuck we're supposed to go. Maybe we should call for a cab. No. Look. There. hulking Italian holds up a sign reading (continues) 'Cardiff Giant.' That's us. You sure? Yeah. He said that's our account with the car service. They approach the driver. (continues) Hi. uh, think that's us. Hi. I'm Jimmy. Bobby. Ricky. Soho Grand, right? What's that? You're going to the Soho Grand hotel, right? I'm not sure. All know is the account is Cardiff Giant. (smiles) Yeah. You're staying at the Soho Grand. You got anything checked? Nah. Travelling light. like that. Is it nice? The Soho Grand? Yeah. You're from right? Yeah. You'll love it. - - - Jimmy walks them out and up to a black He opens the door. Ricky's eyes light up. Holy shit. The flight attendant who told Ricky off rolls her overnight bag past them. Ricky can't help himself. He calls after her... (continues) You missed out, lady! We're staying at the Soho Grand! I'd give you a ride in my limo, but gotta stretch my shit out. She ignores him. - - They ride in the back. Ricky fucks with the buttons. So whenever we want... Yeah. Grab one of the cards behind you. Call that number. It's my cell. So you're our own private guy? handle most of Cardiff Giant's stuff. You know my pager number? No. What is it? don't know. thought you might. Any idea what the job is? The 'job?' Alls know is I'm taking you to the Soho Grand. Where is the Soho Grand? Soho. - - - The drives past a vista of the luminescent The lights twinkle through the highway emissions. The takes a decidedly carnivorous, urban turn. - - The limo drives through the streets of the city. Steam comes out of a manhole cover (if we can afford it). - - - of the trendy architectural hotel. The limo pulls up. - - Nice lobby. - - young black walks Bobby into his suite. They are followed by Ricky. The room is beautiful. Blonde wood paneling is offset by black and white photos of New York's past. Modern furniture and a mirrored wet bar give the suite a luxurious feel. ... And here is the key to the mini-bar. Room and tax has been picked up by Cardiff Giant, as well as one fifty in incidentals. What's 'incidentals?' Phone, room service, mini-bar. Any additional expense. If you need anything you can push the button marked 'Concierge', and they'll be able to help you. Thanks. He hands the bellman a tip. He then pulls out a card key and beckons Ricky. Bobby dials phone. Now, Mr. Slade, you're in room 315. Just give me the key. I'm gonna stay here. Yes, sir. Is it a good room? can take you down there. Just tell me. Wait, here... Do you have change of a hundred? Not on me, sir. Here. Take it. Bring me back eighty. Are you sure? Yeah. Take it. Thank you very much, sir. So? What, sir? Is it the good room? All the suites are about the same. Come on. Just tell me. It'll save all the trouble of you showing me all the rooms. Honestly, the suites are all about the same. What if gave you forty? It's as good a suite as we have, unless you want two bedrooms. No. That's cool. Bring me back eighty. Thank you, sir. Where's the place to go tonight? As far as..? Nightlife. Where's the hot ass? Women? Yeah 'women.' If was a fag could get laid in a subway. don't know, Forum's pretty hot tonight. It might be hard to get in, though. Don't worry about me getting in. Just tell me where it is. It's on West Broadway. See you later. Yeah, take care. Thanks again. I'll bring up your change. The bellman leaves. Hi girls, It's Bobby. I'm here safe and sound. I'm just calling to say love you. I'd leave my number, but you know you can't call me here, so I'll try you later. Uncle Ricky wants to say hi... (he won't) He says hi. Be home soon. Love you. Bye bye. (hangs up) Why don't you want to say hi? She likes you. Ricky dials the phone. (continues) Who you calling? Shhh... Hello, room service? C'mon, man... Yeah, bring up two burgers and a couple of Heinekens. I'm in room... How'd you know? Oh. Yeah. How long? Cool. How much is it? How much? Okay. Make it fifteen minutes and you can add on a ten dollar tip. Bye. How much was it? Forty-six. Jesus, man. Plus ten? Yeah, guess. Great. On my fucking room. Relax. You got one-fifty. You heard the guy. Ricky, who knows how long we're gonna have to be here. We gotta make it last. Fine. I'll put it on my room. Okay? Don't worry about it. Just be smart. But let me tell you, man, don't like your attitude already. Oh really. Why's that? We just got moved up in the world. You gotta let go of that blue collar mentality that was drummed into your head. You gotta start owning it man, or they'll smell you a mile away like a cheap suit. Who's gonna smell me a mile away? Don't play dumb. You know what I'm talking about. He picks up the phone and pulls out Jimmy's card. Bobby hangs up. What are you doing? What are you doing? know you're not calling Jimmy. As a matter of fact was. You got a problem with that? We're here representing Max. You're acting like a Puerto Rican on the fifteenth of the month. You think Maxie doesn't want us to roll hard? Why do you think he gave us all this bread? Or the number on the pager? We gotta represent him by showing some class. The man's got an operation. How does it reflect on him if we nickel and dime it? He dials. Bobby hangs up. It's on West Broadway. We can walk. Well, don't want to walk. Ricky starts to dial. Bobby takes the and (continues) Motherfucker! Ricky on Bobby, and a huge ugly begins. - - - Ricky and Bobby stand side by side at the front of the line as Ricky tries to talk his way past the velvet rope. They look horrible. All their cuts have reopened, their faces are swollen, and their only set of clothes are now disheveled and torn. Ricky talks a steady stream of bullshit, but the will have none of it. ... How 'bout Jimmy? You know Jimmy the driver? Cardiff Giant? You ever deal with them? Cardiff Giant? - - Ricky and Bobby are poured tea by a frilly of Horseshit. 'Try the China Club. 'Fuck you, asshole. think it was a fag bar. Didn't it look like a fag bar. .....They look at each other. of their are going off simultaneously... - - - They run up to a phone stand. An is on it. They wait and listen as he talks baby-talk with his woman. Hello? Shit... Taptaptap ... No dial tone. He lifts the receiver higher. The wires have been of the base. They look at the next phone. An is on it. They wait and listen as he talks baby-talk with his woman. Yeah... Mmmm, that sounds good... Uhu... Excuse me, we need to make a call. I'm on the phone. It's important. So's this. (in phone) Hey baby... Oh, nothing. What were you saying? Listen, man, we really gotta... be off in a minute. (phone) Say again..? Ricky and across the head with it. The poor kid falls out of frame, and Ricky yells into the phone... He'll call back! He hangs up and they both fumble with their pagers and pockets. Bobby puts in a quarter... Shit. It's thirty-five cents. You got a dime? Fuck... He looks down to the kid out of frame. (continues) You got a dime, bro? - - The two banged-up Angelenos clean themselves up in the fold-down vanity mirrors. Jimmy is their driver. So, Jimmy, you know where this address is? Yeah. I'll find it. It's in Harlem. Harlem? What is it, a restaurant? You don't know where you're going? No. Just the cross streets. Well, this is the corner. The limo settles on a desolate street in Harlem. There is nothing going on. (continues) can wait around if you want. No. That's cool, man. They get out and the limo leaves. - - - They stand outside. They look awful. They look with curiosity as cars pass. Ricky lights a cigarette. What exactly did they say? They said a hundred thirty-fifth and Twelfth. They didn't say an address? told you what they said. Nothing else. Nothing. How'd they know who you were? They asked who it was. So they said more than the address. No. They asked who was, then told me what corner. This is bullshit, man. What the fuck do you... slowly passes. They pause. It goes. (continues) What the fuck do you have to complain about? Don't even start. No. Tell me. What's so fucking horrible about this gig? You've been crawling up my ass for six months to get your name on Maxie's list, and here we are. Look, man, never met Ruiz, okay? don't know what the fuck I'm picking up, what the fuck I'm dropping off, who the fuck I'm meeting. All know is Maxie's still pissed at me cause sold his fucking van. You sold it? thought they stole it. Sold it, stole it, whatever... Motherfucker... Oh, give me a break. Don't tell me you feel bad for the guy. You gotta be kidding me. vouched for you. Relax. I'll do right by him. You know that. You just don't fucking get it, do you? You know he fucks all his girls, don't you? What the fuck is that supposed- Mean, that's what heard- You got something to say- Bobby grabs him, and is about to start another scrap, when the distant roar of a fleet of draws near. The pack screams up to the duo. There are a dozen black men, on Ninjas, and they all wear black Nazi-style helmets. The two men freeze, and the bikes settle in around them. One pulls up to Bobby. They flew you all the way out here to cook me up some fuckin puttanesca? Bobby recognizes the biker is Horrace, from He is relieved, but not pleased. You know this guy? His names Horrace. Horrace, this is Ricky Slade. What's up. You all ready to meet Ruiz? Yeah. Where is he? Horrace throws him a helmet. - - Bobby now rides bitch behind Ho, and Ricky clutches the back of a buff shirtless The bikes rip down the uptown streets with a ferocity that scares pedestrians. An urban drum track rattles the - - The horde of bikers rumble under a red, white, and green banner strung from street lamps marking the start of Italian turf. The businesses are all closed or closing. Looks are drawn from locals as the outsiders chug by at a respectful trawl. - - The pack pulls away leaving only Bobby, Ricky, and Horrace. Ho leans his Ninja to rest next to a custom Buell Harley-Davidson cafe racer. Bobby can't help but stare at the rare piece of machinery. They enter. - - The restaurant is now closed, but sits in a rear booth on a Nokia. He is a slim, young black man with a tight round fro. He wears a rolex, but, other than that, nothing flashy. He's wearing dark Gucci slacks, a black pullover crew-neck shirt, and a black, red and orange racing leather jacket. He must have pull here, because 'Between the Sheets' is playing over the stereo of this bare-bones, Italian eatery. (on cell) Nah, man. Nah. Too risky. don't like it... want out... It's too risky... Listen, man, we made a lot of money together on this one, but it's over. Shit's gonna come down... Well, then, you got my blessing. I'm selling my end. This internet shit's too volatile. I'll keep my block of Microsoft, but I'm taking profits on Yahoo and all the portal stocks. The bubble's gonna pop, man... Alright, peace. The three men approach Ruiz's table. (continues) That's it? This is Maxie's cavalry? Who the fuck swole you up like that? Bobby and Ricky both point to each other. (continues) Shit. If that shit don't beat all. Maxie sent me two fuckin broke ass swole up guineas from the West side. coulda signed up some hard local guineas for beer money. Ain't that right, Leo? the white-haired Italian waiter nods in agreement. Sure. You boys want anything? Yeah, bring us four fernet. Four fernet. No. I'll take a strega. What, motherfucker? You drinking 'the witch' after dinner? Yeah. That fernet tastes like tar. My grandfather tried to give me that. Some fuckin guineas he sent me. It's midnight and the motherfucker's ordering an apertif. It's a digestif. Strega's an apertif. Fine. Bring me a Cynar. Nigger, please. Don't even order that artichoke shit. West side guineas. Forget the drinks, Leo. We gotta roll. What do owe you? We're square. Thanks, man. You need anything, you call. Thanks. You rode? Yeah. (hits speed dial) Jimmy? Ruiz. Pick up Maxie's guineas at and bring them to Spa. (hangs up) Jimmy's bringing the car around. Me and Ho rode sleds. We'll meet you at Spa in the room. Where's Spa. Jimmy knows. 13th Street. We'll meet you there. They leave. Ricky and Bobby sit and wait. Ricky addresses Leo after they kick their bikes. How do you like that fucking moulinyan? Maybe you two should wait out front. - - Ricky and Bobby sit in the back as Jimmy drives them. This shit's sketchy. Why do they drop us in the middle of nowhere to have the guy we're supposed to meet come meet us just to tell us we have to meet the same guy somewhere else? don't know. Well, thought you understood and was just missing it. Missing what? He didn't say shit. Yeah, but you know Horrace. What did you get off him? What did 'get?' Yeah. What vibe? detected no vibe other than that Ruiz thinks you're a fucking idiot. Yo, fuck him, man. Calling us guineas... What do you give a shit what he calls us? He's not our friend. Let's just get this shit over with and go home. What's this place we're going to, Jimmy? Spa? Yeah. Depends what night. lot of Persians? Not usually. Mostly Trustafarians. 'Trustafarians?' You know, white kids with trust funds acting like they're poor. Keeping it real. Know what mean? call 'em wiggers. Different. This Ruiz guy, what's his deal? Don't know much. hear he runs a tight ship. Yeah? Understand me? Yeah. (quiet) So is this the drop? Like said, don't know. He woulda told us right? You would think. - - horrifying line has formed as New York's best and beautiful primp and peck their way to the door. The rope is three-deep and three coordinate the traffic patterns. The limo settles in and a opens the door in hope of a tip. Jimmy steps in his way as Bobby and Ricky, in tattered clothes, move toward a big white in an oversized hat. They fight their way past the other people who are fighting their way past the line. (responding to irritated looks) Watch out, man. Sorry. I'm on the list, man. (to the doorman) Hey, bro. The line's over there. Yeah, but, we're good. You know what mean? How is it you're good? You on a list? Yeah. Ricky Slade. (to doorman with clipboard) You see a Ricky Slade? The doorman with a clipboard checks and shakes his head. Cardiff Giant? What? Cardiff Giant. Just check. Maybe you wanna try the China Club. Again with the fucking China Club! What do look like a fucking Persian to you? (firm) Hey. I'm half Lebanese. We're with Ruiz. Ruiz isn't here. We're supposed to meet him here. Is Ruiz on the list? Ruiz is always on the list. He just ain't here, though. Can you check? He's not here. While they're waiting, the actor who played on 'Saved By the Bell', now in his twenties, walks by and is let through the rope with a handshake. (continues) What's up, man. S'up. You look big, man. Diesel. You been lifting? little. You look good, man. Cool. See you later. Cool. Ricky can't believe his eyes. Did you see that shit? Motherfucker. (to doorman) You let in fucking Screech, dude? I'm waiting and you let in Screech? He's on the list. (hot) Show me. Show me where it says Screech on the fucking list. This altercation is cut short by the arrival of Ruiz and Horrace. The Red Sea parts as they approach the door. What's up, bro? You look big, man, you been lifting? little. How's it going tonight? Shit's off the chain. These two say they're with you. Yeah. Alright. These two are good. He opens the rope. Bobby shakes his hand. (continues) Sorry, man, but... Thanks a lot. Don't worry about it. Any time, bro. Thanks. Ricky walks by and throws him a look like he just stuck it in. - - Bobby and Ricky are lead into the club and past a window and another set of ropes. Their hands are stamped several times representing the highest level of security clearance. They file down a staircase and into one common area where hip-hop plays and people dance. Ruiz and Horrace touch hands with an endless stream of They pass a myriad of rooms and seating areas, then down a narrow corridor where they encounter yet another who waves them past a of hopefuls. They trot down a short bank of stairs and into... - - ... a series of passageways furnished like a French parlor. Lithe sit amongst Dreadlocked white boys. After yet another bar, the crowd vomits into a cavernous bomb shelter. pulsing dance floor is surrounded by a series of couches and coffee tables, representing the private seating areas. At the far end of the room is an elevated stage with a and a banner reading The party is greeted by a male club He hugs Ruiz. With the slightest of nods, the party is lead to the prime table with a table tent marked They sit down as a beautiful brings two buckets of champagne and fluted glasses. Bobby and Ricky try to hide how impressed they are as they look at each other. on the dance floor throw priceless looks toward their table. Ricky raises a glass to one. Ruiz finally looks at them and leans in. He's spotted someone. That's him. Now you all know the drill, right? What drill? We don't know any drill. Nobody told us anything. Maxie told you to keep your mouth shut while you're working, right? Yeah. So we're working? What the fuck you think, wanna 'hang' with you motherfuckers? Yeah you're working. And put down the champagne. She poured it for- Far as she knows you're John Gotti. Now put the shit down and act like you got some ass. Ruiz gets up and crosses to a looking across the room. They watch. He making the drop? Nah, man. He's just making contact. That's our man. The Welsh guy. What's his name? Ruiz don't like using names on cell phones. He refers to him as the Red Dragon. So, when's the drop. To be honest, man, don't know shit either. All know is it ain't drugs and it ain't now. How do you know it's not drugs? Maxie knows don't go near drugs. did a minute in Quentin for possession with intent. And it ain't now cause he woulda told me. You strapped? (confused) 'Strapped?' It means you got a gun? know what 'strapped' means, motherfucker. What the fuck you think this shit is? '21 Jump Street?' (notices) Cool out, they're coming back. Just throw up your screw face and don't speak unless spoken to. They settle in and Ruiz comes back with the They're both laughing. Here, man, sit down. (breaking the tension) see you brought along the rogues gallery. Not really. Just some friends from out West. This is Ho, Bobby, and Rick. He shakes their hands, keeping it light. And here thought you flew in some out of town muscle. How's it going, men? So, you must be the Red Dragon. This draws from Ruiz, Ho, and especially Bobby. After an uncomfortable pause, the Welshman breaks the tension with laughter. Well, that's news to me. The name's Tom. Mmmm-hmm. Where's the, uh, 'Dragon's lair?' Where do you live? Edinburgh. And where might that be? Scotland. Well, word on the street is you're Welsh. am. rose by any other name would-- (changing the subject) Come here, there's someone want you to meet. You like big tiddies? Well, who doesn't? They walk off. Ruiz sneaks a glare. - - - Ricky and Bobby are being lectured by Ruiz, who sits across from them next to Horrace. What the fuck was you told? Don't talk, right? Unless spoken to, ain't that right, Horrace. Didn't you say that? Don't drag my ass into this- He spoke to me. You want me to dis him? 'Dis?' 'Dis?' You're not in a position to 'dis', or 'give props', or whatever your Real World sense of fucking decorum tells you to do. You're nothing. You're wallpaper. You're not here to make fucking friends. Asking a motherfucker where he lives. And who the fuck told you 'Red Dragon'?. We get it. We're sorry. Now that Limey motherfucker's jumpy and wants to change shit around on me. Maxie's gonna shit a Nokia when he hears about... Aw, shit, better call him before he hears. Ruiz pulls out his cell phone and steps out, slamming the door. I'm not saying shit to neither of you. Why? What say bad? What the fuck, 'Red Dragon?' What? Why am bad? How bad is it? It's bad. Before you even showed up, he said you were Maxie's 'token goons', and not to be trusted. He wanted to alone. was gonna ride shotgun to keep the English dude above board. Now he's spooked. This shit's snowballing. When's it going down? Was gonna be tomorrow morning. Now, who knows? Shit. Outside, Ruiz starts his bike. Horrace slides out. See you later. You really in trouble? Stop. I'll tell him someone else told me. Just don't ask me no more shit. Horrace closes the door and starts his bike. They ride off. You happy? About what? Why you gotta make everything difficult? You too? Yeah, me too. You're a fucking bull in a china shop. Fuck this. He opens the door. Where do you think you're going? Back in. You fucking nuts? Work's over. I'm gonna party. You can't go in there. They know you're with Ruiz. You got that right. Fuck you. Go then. I'm taking the car. Fine. Ricky walks past the line with a handshake. Bobby sits, staring forward. Where to? - - Ricky sits in their booth surrounded by young hot Two are already part of the fun: and who we will get to later. They are dressed Manhattan fabulous. Bobby approaches, a wet blanket on two legs. Look who's back? Want some champagne? (to waitress) Do not put this on Ruiz's tab. Start a new one. Damn right. Bring us two bottles of Dom Champs and here, take fifty in case call you bitch later when I'm drunk. (she goes) Siddown, motherfucker. (he pours him a glass and toasts) 'Sex and paychecks.' They all clink. - - Shots at the bar. With chicks. So, wait, you're from where? Manhattan. You girls aren't from Brooklyn or anything? No. swear to God, we live in Manhattan. - Staggering through the streets of downtown with a string of in tow, including Bianca and Cynthia. Laughs and cigarettes. bottle snuck out of a bar. - Another magnum of champagne empty and jammed nose-down into an ice bucket. don't get it. What do you do? We're in Fashion. So you're models? We rep lines? You know? Fashion? And you grew up in Manhattan? Kinda. Yeah. What do you mean 'kinda?' You ever heard of Whitestone? - - new bevy of but still Bianca and Cynthia. Drunk. Drinking more. Vampires watch the sun rise. They skulk into... - - Ricky and Bobby are hammered and lead Bianca, Cynthia and an into their hotel. - - on a as the group of partiers are seen through the glass playing grabass. - - - The place is a mess. Room service is all over the place. Bianca, Cynthia, the Asian coat check girl, and Bobby sit in the squalid living area as Ricky enters from the toilet zipping his fly. don't know about you guys, but I'm starting to feel a really sexual vibe here. What happened? thought we were playing Truth or Dare. Look at, ladies. could sit here and take turns throwing skittles at your ass all night. But feel what you guys are putting out there. I'm only a mirror reflecting what I'm getting from you. And I'm saying yes to it. I'm shaking hands with it. see the road that you're pointing down and I'm saying I'll ride shotgun. And when your foot slams on the accelerator, won't get scared. I'll stand up and let the wind blow through my long blonde hair. With my summer dress clinging to my bosom yelling 'Faster, Billy! Faster! Drive faster! Faster yet-!' Ricky is by Bianca's blowing up. She answers. Hello... She doesn't want to talk to you... No... don't have to ask her. Let it go, Sean. Cynthia grabs the phone. Will you leave me alone, already..? No, Sean, it's over... don't care.... As a matter of fact, am... Yeah. In his hotel room... (can't believe she said it) Holy shit. I'm having fun , Sean. Can you handle that..? Yeah. He doesn't judge me. don't wear a white wig, don't carry a gavel. That's a good idea, maybe will! Are you alright. She hangs up. Now you girls wait here. got a special surprise. The girls are all waiting with Bobby as Ricky leaves the room. Bobby does not make any attempt to keep the ball rolling. Cynthia whispers too loud and drunk. Is he cute? He's okay. Should fuck him? don't know. Do whatever you want. He's great, right. Is he great? He's alright. (disappointed) know. (cheerleader) But maybe that's okay. Maybe that's just what you need. Can you excuse me for a minute? Bobby leaves the room. He finds Ricky in a hotel robe filling the (continues) What the fuck's going on? Dude, get back out there. You gotta help me get them in the hot tub. (shouts) Hang on girls! Just get out there. I'll be right out. You know how do. Yeah, know how you do. know how you do. I've heard your kibbles and bits all fucking night. You've been shaking your ass like an unemployed clown. How the room's a boiling pot of sugar water. How you're gonna dip a string into it and make rockcandy. Who wants to play 'Just the tip?' Dancing around like a smacked ass. Oh, and that coat check girl you've been dragging around as 'insurance' doesn't even speak English. (leaves) Ricky checks the water and comes out talking. Okay. We got a lot happening here. Here comes the good part... Okay... (re: robe) Somebody's getting comfortable. Where's the surprise? You want your surprise? Yeah. want it. Well, come on then. It's back here. Cynthia leaves with Ricky. Bobby is left with Bianca and the Asian coat check girl. Bianca and he are uncomfortable. After a long pause... You mind if roll a joint? Ricky sits in the with a glass of champagne. You want to come splash around. I'm just warning you, can't swim. Then... Bianca sparks up. She offers to Bobby, who refuses. I'm not like her, you know. mean, I'm not judging, but I'm more about my dogs. Do you have dogs? Are you a dog guy? Cynthia lets her towel drop. She dips her toe into the water. Out of nowhere she begins to wail. Back in the main room Bobby, Bianca, and the Asian girl react to the off-screen crying. Cynthia comes rushing out in a bathrobe, bursting with tears. Ricky follows in a towel. want to leave right now. didn't do anything-- What the hell did you do? swear to God, didn't do anything. Oh no. What is it this time. We used to take baths together. Come on. Let's go. Cynthia calls her boyfriend on the cell phone. Sean? want you to pick me up... know. I'm sorry too. They leave. What the fuck was that about? She was jonesing for me. They notice the Asian girl still sitting there in the room. Bobby hands her cab fare and escorts her out. Here you go, darling. Get home safe. BEEBEEP...Both their pagers go off. (continues) Fuck. He reaches for the phone. Dials. (continues) Hi. (mouthes to Ricky) It's Ruiz. (phone) Yeah. So the driver knows where to go? When? We'll be down in five. No, I'll tell him. He's right there. Bye. What's up? He wants to see us now. Where? He said it's being arranged. He said Jimmy will know. We're getting whacked. We're not getting whacked. Why else you think he won't tell us where the sit down is? It's not a 'sit down.' He said he's telling us the plan. Ricky is waving around a from a room service tray, testing the weight and balance. (continues) What are you doing. got a bad feeling, man. don't want to go in naked. You gonna shank him in the shower? Is it so unrealistic to think Ruiz, who doesn't even want us here, is throwing us to the wolves? As an apology? And don't even know what we're dropping off or picking up - We're getting ahead of ourselves. We haven't gotten any sleep. Let's just keep our mouthes shut and not make any mistakes. Now hurry up and get your shit on so we're not late and make things worse. - - Ricky and Bobby look awful. They have bags under their swollen eyes, gorged stomachs, bruised faces, tattered clothes, and yolk on their chin. Ricky lights a smoke. Put that shit out... C'mon, man... swear to God, I'll fucking puke. (obliging) Hey, Jimmy, where they taking us? Yeah. Where they gonna whack us? Ricky looks at him without an ounce of humor. Jimmy laughs. If they're whacking you, they're doing it in style. The limo pulls up to... - - - Jimmy lets them out. - - The leads them past an orgy of a Everything looks sickening to our bloated drunks. The head of a whitefish in particular makes an impression on the boys. They are lead to a table joining Ruiz and Horrace, who are both dressed appropriately for a society brunch. Jesus Christ, where the fuck you been all night? You look like you got shit out in the gorilla house. Good morning. (laughs) Good morning. You think this shit's funny, Ho? Nah, man... You think it's funny, motherfucker? Easy, Ruiz. shows up. Don't 'easy Ruiz' me. Y'all turned a Easter egg hunt into a butt-fuck-a-thon. (to waiter) Bring me four eggs Benedict and a mimosa. You all want mimosas? (ill) Nah, man... No... Four mimosas. (to guys) You'll love them. So here's the plan. didn't say shit to Maxie, cause the man has acute angina, and don't want to get him all worked up. He has a cute what..? bad heart. didn't tell him shit. He worries too much. love that old Jew, but he's gonna kill himself worrying. We started this shit, and we're gonna finish it. Who's gonna outfit us? Outfit? What's he talking about? Nothing, man. You want us strapped, don't you? Last thing want is you with a gun. Word. What's the plan? Tom, the Welsh dude- The Red Dragon. Shut it, man. Shut it. Tom is a square. He don't but dabble in shit. Maxie had me hook up a loan-back with him, through an Austrian passbook account. So, we're talking money laundering... Will you tell Peter Jennings to shut up and fucking listen. The shit's as routine as you get. coulda turned it over offshore in a week, but Maxie likes to do it all his way. Safe. coulda dropped the bag alone. It's only two hundred G's. But he sent you all. So can either send you home and tell Maxie, or we can flush the toilet one more time and hope it all goes down. Let's do it. I'm your soldier. Now listen. The gig couldn't be simpler. You carry the money to the Welshman, he checks it, hands you his marker, you're done. The washed money goes directly to Maxie. Long as you hand off the bag, you're tight. Where's the drop? You three are gonna meet him for dinner. Find out if and where. Now any of you motherfuckers got anything else to say? Yeah. What? When all this is over and we're not working for Maxie, I'd love to run into you on the street. (beat of silence) Why aren't you coming? That's none of your fucking business. - - - Bobby tries to hold his shit together as he wanders down a mirrored hallway. He arrives at a He opens the door to find a... - - ...windowless dining room, painted with grotesque greenery. He quickly ducks out. - - Bobby splashes water on his face. - - Horrace, Bobby and Ricky walk and talk through the picturesque park. Ricky picks at a tuft of cotton candy. Why isn't Ruiz coming? This Welsh dude is tripping on Ruiz cause he's a Shot Caller. What's that? Shot Caller. boss, a Capo. He's running shit. Yeah. another view of the bears. The Welsh dude, sees all these niggers in perms and diamonds and shit, he gets nervous. But you motherfuckers, he just laughs. All beat up in your babaloo suit like Fruitpie the magician. So we just go eat with him and that's gonna solve everything? Dude, you just gotta settle your shit down. You gotta go and say all that 'Red Dragon' shit. Make him think he's on Barretta. Like you were doing any better shucking and jiving like you were waiting for wings outside the Quick and Split. another view of the bears. So what do we do? We go and hang out with the dude, make him happy, drink some tea, whatever it takes, until he feels comfortable enough to bring it up on his own. We make the drop, go home to California. Where is this happening? (hands him matchbook) We meet at the Globe on Park Avenue at six forty-five. I'll see you then. Horrace walks away, leaving Bobby and Ricky. Let's check out the penguins. The what? The penguin house. Wait a minute. You want to look at fucking penguins now? Yeah. Let's look at the penguins. Did you hear what he just said? Whatever. We're here. We may as well go to the penguin house. I'm tired and I'm scared, and I'm not looking at fucking penguins. - - Bobby and Ricky watch the frolic in their arctic habitat. The silence is broken by... We need guns. We don't need guns. I'm pretty sure we do. listened extremely carefully. Nothing was even vaguely implied. He even laughed in your face when you asked him All the more reason. You wouldn't even know where to get one. Wanna bet? You couldn't even get a hand job from bridge and tunnel posse, how you gonna get a gun? That's cause you decided to get all tired all of a sudden. It was six in the fucking morning. Float me a hundred bucks. Why? You wanna see how fast get a gun? You're out of money? No. What do you have left? Eighty. Eighty bucks?!? Eighty five. What happened to the fifteen hundred? You coulda picked up a tab every once in a while. did! paid for half the fuckin drinks! You did? Yes did. You asshole! What about the room? What about it? They only cover one fifty in incidentals. You've been ordering fucking... Motherfucker... He starts to count out his cash. Calm down. fucking vouched for you. vouched for you and you fucked me. This shit's peanuts compared to what we're gonna make with Maxie. Ricky. I'm trying to save this money. Understand? I'm trying to make it so my girlfriend doesn't have to grind her ass into other men's erections so her daughter can go to private school. I'm sorry... This is horseshit. It coulda been so easy. It's gonna be fine. No more, man. Let's get some sleep. That's what we need, man. Sleep. How we gonna sleep? We only got a few hours til dinner. So what do we do? Let's just go now and wait. Three and a half hours? don't want to take any more chances. Let's just go get guns, I'd feel better. Don't fuck around. You're gonna get us all killed. Think about it: You knocked out that Jewish kid's tooth, cost him eight grand, maybe more. Maybe lost his whole line of clientele? He knows you're fucking up Jess' dancing, and got a feeling he knows stole his carpet cleaning van by the way he looks at me. He can't kill us in cause that leads to too many questions. So he flies us out here first class for a 'drop' that's turned into whatever? He can make us disappear out here real nice... Where do you get this shit? Scenario think I'm getting under Ruiz's skin. I'm no dummy. He doesn't like how it went down with the Red Drag- Welshman, whatever. Now got Fruitpie the Magician telling me can't call my man Max? And that Welshman's sketchy. Whatever, don't know where it's coming, which way it's coming from, I'm telling you one thing right now, I'm not gonna be late for the dance. You're not getting a gun. - - Bobby is on the beside Ricky. He leaves a message. Hi girls. It's Bobby. Can't seem to get a hold of you. Gonna be home soon. miss you. Chloe, Uncle Ricky's here. He wants to say hello. Say hi to Chloe. Ricky fights with him in whispers, then finally takes the phone. Hi Princess. It's Ricky. hope you're doing good sweety. Everyone's okay. Nobody's hurt... Talk to you soon. Bye. - - Ricky and Bobby look horrible. They stare in silence drinking coffee. - - of the two guys shifting and resting. - - Horrace arrives with the Welshman. Look. They're together. You telling me this ain't a set-up? Easy... They arrive. Hey, boys. Tom. How's it going? Fine, fine. And you were..? Bobby and Ricky. Right, right. The 'thugs.' They share a laugh. The tension is slowly dissipating. (continues) And where is..? Ruiz? Oh, he ain't here. No? Nah, see, Maxie just asked him to set that shit up as a favor. He, you know, he tied in with the club. Set us up so, you know, you feel at home. Well, didn't care for the club much. And, must say, didn't care for him either. Well, he ain't gonna be around no more. Pity. What's say we have a drink? 61 - - Ricky and Bobby can barely keep they're eyes open. Horrace seems equally irritated as the Welshman drains what appears to be his fifth pint of ale. Ricky is preoccupied by a projected image on the wall. This is the greatest fucking country in the world. love this fucking place. mean the food, the women, the fucking curbs. This country has the highest fucking curbs in the world. It's fucking brilliant. You know what love most? This shit. He pulls out a can of chewing tobacco and pinches off a chew. Dip? Yeah. This shit's fucking brilliant. just fucking love the fact that you have kids driving around in pickup trucks with a mouthful of this shit, speeding their brains out. gotta bring a case of it home to my mates. It's illegal back home, you know. No shit? Does anyone want another? You want another drink? I'll get it. Who's up for a night on the town. This is the worst possible thing he could've said as far as Bobby is concerned. He is exhausted. The guys play the host. Sure. Anyplace in particular? hear the China Club is a laugh. - - They sit in a booth. Loud club music bombards their growing impatience. Bobby and Ricky strain to stay awake. The Welshman drains a cocktail, watching a table-hopping relishing his enthusiastic audience of one as he presents him with the Queen of diamonds. Bloody hell! Brilliant! Did you see that? Horrace slips the performer a bill and he trots off. (continues) Now, about the business at hand... They all perk up and lean in. Tom drains his glass. (continues) Anyone have any drugs. wave of dread. What do you want? little Charlie, perhaps. Coke? I've heard you've got the best coke in the States. The shit back home is pants. (slipping Ricky some bills) That shouldn't be a problem. Ricky looks to Bobby, who shrugs. Ricky reluctantly goes off to find drugs. Tom smiles and hugs Bobby and Horrace. You guys are the fucking best. swear, didn't know about this whole thing, but you guys are okay. - - - Horrace, Ricky, Tom, and Bobby are all packed like sardines in the toilet stall. Ricky hands Tom a glassine envelope full of coke. (slurring) God love you... He opens it with drunken abruptness, sending part of it's contents onto Bobby's jacket. (continues) Aw, fuck me. Sorry... He starts rubbing the spillage from Bobby's lapel onto his gums. Horrace prevents any more waste by taking the envelope away. (continues) Sorry, mates. Now there isn't even enough to go around... Don't worry, man. It's all for you. (touched) No, really, mate? Here... Horrace positions himself so that the Welshman can sniff from his hand. The four large men all reposition themselves in the tiny stall, inevitably stepping on each other and banging heads. Ow, shit... Watch it... C'mon... Fuck... the attendant watches the feet shuffle as they curse from within. Tom snorts a pile of cocaine from Horrace's outstretched hand. (continues) Fuck, that's good shit. So, what's say we make a go of this and you drop off the cash tomorrow? Finally. - - - The limo settles to a to drop off Horrace. Now, here's what worries me. He said he wants to meet up at a bar in Red Hook. You know where that is? No. Brooklyn. Yeah? He must have that shit troughed. What do you mean 'troughed?' Troughed off. Protected. Like, you know, like he got a moat around it. Ruiz tied in out there? Nah, man. No one is. They got some Puerto Ricans and a new crop of fuckin Irish immigrants. I'm half Irish. don't fuck with those crazy, off-the-boat fuckin Irish. You heard of the Westies?. Heard of them. They ran shit back in the Eighties. Used to cut motherfuckers heads off and sit them on the bar. That's back when the Irish was making a play against the Italians. don't know if they still around, but don't fuck with those motherfuckers just in case. It sounds to me like everybody's just a little jumpy. And since all it is is a drop, the Welshman's got nothing at stake. say we go to his 'troughed off' bar. It'll calm his nerves, we drop the bag, and we all get back to our lives. And not a word to Maxie. He'll shit if he knew we crossed a bridge. They all nod. Horrace gets out. - - They pull up to the Soho Grand. Ricky wakes Bobby, who begins to doze. Get up brother. We're home. Go up and get some sleep. - - Bobby drags himself into his suite. He drops his drawers and lays down. Instead of sleeping, he picks up the phone and dials. Hello. Chloe? Uncle Bobby? Hi, baby. What are you doing awake? Where's mommy? don't know. (concerned, checking watch) Mommy's not home? No. What time is it there? Can you take me to Color Me Mine? Yeah. Are you sure mommy's not home? It's very late. BEEBEEP...Shit. The pager. (continues) gotta go, baby. love you. Tell mommy called. You be a big girl and be careful when you're alone. love you. Come home. He hangs up, then dials. Yeah..? Now..? Did Ricky call yet..? See you in a minute. He sits up, hunched over. He motivates reluctantly. He claws his way into the bathroom and rinses his face in a meagre attempt to wash away the cobwebs. He looks awful. The are beginning to as sleep deprivation sets in. - - - Bobby sits into the car once again. Jimmy pulls away. Aren't we waiting for Ricky? Ricky's taken care of. Taken care of? Yeah, he's getting there on his own. Bobby fights to clear his head and think. - - The limo pulls up, and Horrace steps in, talking on the phone. Horrace carries a - - The car pulls away. Bobby has the no-sleep-sweats. He looks awful. No one greets anyone. There is a tension. Horrace is on the phone. (phone) Yeah... Yeah... Uhu... can't really talk now, but it's all going as planned. If things change, I'll call. He hangs up. Where we going? Quick drop. In and out. Where's Ricky? Ricky's taken care of. How so? He was uptown when paged him. gave him the address. He's meeting us there. (re: briefcase) That it? That's it. - - The car crosses the Brooklyn Bridge and drives through Brooklyn. - - Bobby is watching and thinking as Brooklyn goes by. Horrace seems distant. - - - The limo passes the corner and settles in front of the time worn Icarus Tavern. young stands out front smoking a fag. The place is open, but the neon sign is off. - - They pop the doors. This is it. Where's Ricky. guess inside. Or he never made it. Either way, don't give a shit. Let's get this over with. - - The two guys get out and enter the pub. Horrace carries the case of cash. The guy at the door watches them enter and snuffs out his smoke. - - They enter the old world gin mill. It's dark. There's a long, aged wooden bar and oak booths. The floor boards are faded and bowed. middle-aged reads the Post by the oversized beer taps. He looks up over his reading glasses without expression. Two young Irish stand up from a booth and lead the men into the back room. There is a silent tension. No sign of Ricky. - - Even darker. They slowly walk in, sending cautious looks to every corner. simple round table sits in the center of this sparse dining room. Three sit around it, all facing the door. Tom, the Welshman, sits with his back to the door. They all have pints before them. muted conversation ends as Tom follows their stares over his shoulder to see Bobby and Horrace enter. Silence for a then... Here they are, then. (falsely relaxed) How's it going? Brilliantly. Care for a pint? No, thanks, man. We got to head out. Come, now. You just got here. That's alright, man. It's a little early for me to drink. This draws an uncomfortably bass chuckle from the seven dark characters now surrounding them. Nonsense. We'll have three half pints of lager. One Irishman goes to fetch the drinks. Two of the Irishmen pat them down for guns. (continues) Sorry about that. Where's your mate? Couldn't make it. Here's the money. Horrace places the case on the table. Its weight makes a loud thunk as it hits the hardwood. He pops the catch and lifts the lid. Wow. That's a lot of money. The toughs lose their poker faces as their knees weaken from the sight of it. Even Bobby has to swallow as the Devil blows on his nape. Tom fingers the stacks. (continues) (anxious) Give me your marker, and we'll be on our way. Tom begins to write out a receipt. can't yet vouch for the amount, unless you want me to sit here and count. No, man, that's fine. Just put that you took delivery. Then, in what takes only a matter of seconds, Bobby has a to his and Horrace takes a truncheon to the gut, flooring him. (continues) What the fuck, man? Why? The money's in your hand. Why you pulling this shit? Tom is scared shit. He's more surprised than any of them. just hired these guys to watch my back... Motherfucker, we're handing you money. What the hell we gonna pull? Shut your goddamn mouth! As far as any of you are concerned, a gang of spics took the bag. Understood? Grab their wallets. I'll know where to find each and every one of you. didn't know, swear to God, He takes one in the gut, violently losing his wind. (to Bobby) If you and your boy set this up, you're way out of your league. Shut up! Maybe you're the one who better shut up. They all turn to see standing tall with a to the head of a tough with two beers. Ricky sips the third lager. He's only got six shots, he's bound to miss. Or maybe I'm real lucky. I'll tell you one thing, I'll waste every bullet making sure you're dead if you don't take that knife away from my friends throat. The thug removes the blade from Bobby's neck. His eyes narrow as he looks at the gun. He notices something... That's a starter pistol. (covering) What? His gun's a starter pistol. can see the red plug in the barrel. The toughs begin to relax and converge... (nervous) Are you willing to risk your life over- But the moment proves enough of a distraction for Bobby to unload a damaging to his captor. He may not have what it takes to cut it as a professional boxer, but these untrained goons are way outclassed. He drops one like a lead weight. It's about to get ugly as weapons are raised. Then... The melee is cut short by a resounding calling from the door. That's enough. Jimmy the driver stands in the door aiming a Glock 45 at the crowd. They all freeze. (continues) You guys, over in the corner. Leave the hardware and your wallets on the table. (to bartender) Make out an invoice on damages. You got e-mail? (nods. Jimmy hands him a card.) E-mail it to me. check will arrive. Call the number at the bottom and tell them the Rook is code four. Then destroy the card. (to Bobby) Nice. I'll let Maxie know you're good in the pocket. (to Ricky) Staduch. (to the guys) Go. I'll take care of this. Things are about to get ugly. Bobby grabs the case. They split. - - They get in. The limo pulls out. - - Horrace peels out and Bobby, Ricky, Horrace, and the Red Dragon all sit in silence catching their breath. Bobby holds the case. Looks are exchanged. Holy shit. Get me back to Manhattan. (interrupts) Take us right to Kennedy. Now. Horrace nods. - - Bobby and Ricky sit before Max. They look the worst we've ever seen them. They've obviously not slept or changed yet and flew right out after the melee. Maxie looks at the open case of cash. long, tense of unclear reaction. Is Maxie mad or happy. Finally... You did good. He throws them each a bundle off the top of the pile of bills. Ten grand stacks? (continues) never intended to test you two to that extent, but you both came through. should've been informed there was a flag on the play, but I'll take that up with Ruiz. made a few calls back East. Those punks weren't tied in with anyone. As for the Welshman, he wasn't in on it. He was just plain dumb. As for you, Ricky, your draw will go towards a new carpet cleaning van. But, Max- We're square. Yes, sir. And, as for you, Bobby, you just moved up a notch. Your days of fighting for crumbs is through. Take a week off, come back, and we'll talk about the next thing. There won't be a next thing. Take a few days- don't need a few days. I'm gonna settle down with Jess. She's through dancing. We're opening a restaurant. Hate to ruin your fairy tale, but I've been paying Jess' rent for six months. She's got to keep dancing- Bobby throws his stack of cash at Maxie. Ricky grimaces. She's through too. Thank you for the opportunity, Max. We'll see you around. They rise to leave. (smiling) You got a lot to learn, kid. Say hi to Jess for me. - - - - The Trans Am pulls up in front of Jess' house. Bobby and Ricky both pop out. We catch the end of a conversation. Dude, we were practically made... I'll drop you off in a minute. want to see if the baby's up. You wanna come in? No. I'll wait here. I'll be a minute. Bobby trots up the stairs. Ricky lights a smoke and watches him go. We linger on his look. - - - The door opens. The living room looks like a disaster area. The sink is full of dishes, stacked high above the counter. Dirty clothes are strewn all over. Half eaten plates of food are on the coffee table and bags of carry-out containers and pizza boxes lie about. In the center of it all, Chloe sits alone watching a Hollywood Hills brushfire on the news. She looks up with the solemnity of one much older. Where's mommy? Did she leave you alone again? Chloe looks to the back room as she sips from her juice box. Bobby sees a and laid out on the table. He grits his teeth and goes for the bedroom door. - - Bobby bursts in to find Jess in bed with the whose nose he broke the week before. The guy jumps in fear. Jess is startled and coked out of her mind. Don't... don't get it. never promised you anything. How could you let her see this? Goodbye, Bobby. Just so you know, bought you out with Maxie. suggest you leave while you can. Don't you get it? don't want to leave. This is who am. Tell you the truth, don't give a shit for me. But that little girl is so special, and you're gonna fuck her up. He crosses to go, but is interrupted by... (quietly) Take her. What'd you say? want you to take her with you. Off Bobby's look we... - - Bobby walks in. Chloe looks up at him. tense silence. uh ... Listen, hon. Mommy thinks it's a good idea if, just for a while, if you and me go on a trip- Before he can finish, his stammering is cut short by her bolting across the room and into his arms. She squeezes him with all her might. We see Bobby's relief and happiness over her shoulder. - - - We on a beautiful sunny morning travelling on an empty desert road. The only car visible is Bobby's Trans Am in the deep background, leaving the mountains behind. The along the road as the car closes slowly. We hear Chloe's angelic voice as she sings a melody. As the car draws closer, we see Bobby, still in the clothes from the trip, driving. There is luggage packed for a journey. Bobby looks content. When the car finally settles into a through the windshield, we notice coming from the back seat. moment later, Ricky sits up behind them. He is half awake and cranky. Baby, you got the sweetest voice ever heard, but Uncle Ricky's gotta sleep. I've been driving all night, Princess. She ignores him. (continues) Shhh, c'mon, baby. It's quiet time. Isn't it quiet time, Bobby? Bobby? Tell her it's quiet time Bobby. Please tell her it's quiet time... Bobby smirks and accelerates, passing which to watch them speed off into the big sky horizon. Made : Jon Favreau :