Rev. 08/20/02 (2nd Blue) Rev. 08/22/02 (2nd Pink) Rev. 01/29/03 (2nd Yellow) Written by Fax Bahr & Adam Small & Jamie Kennedy and Nick Swardson Story by Nick Swardson & Jamie Kennedy and Fax Bahr & Adam Small & Jamie Kennedy July 25, 2002 "The Message" and as we... tricked-out Cadillac Escalade with the windows tinted deep black rolls 'It's like a jungle sometimes, It makes me wonder how keep from going under...' passes three people doing tai chi on a bluff overlooking the ocean... 'Broken glass everywhere, people pissing on the stairs you know they just don't care...' passes a gorgeous Labrador retriever snatching a Frisbee midair... 'Can't take the smell, Can't take the noise, Got no money to move out guess got no choice...' passes two horse back riders galloping along the beach... 'Rats in the front room, Roaches in the back...' passes a gleaming mansion with a massive putting green- like lawn... 'Junkie's in the alley With a baseball bat...' passes blonde Little Leaguers playing baseball in crisp new uniforms. crazy lady, livin' in a bag, Eatin' outta garbage pails, Used to be a fag hag...' passes two rich housewives clutching shopping bags from the most expensive stores on the planet... 'Don't push me cuz I'm close to the edge, I'm tryin', not to lose my head...' Drives through a security gate and into a gated community of brand new mansions... 'It's like a jungle sometimes, it makes me wonder, How keep from goin' under...' small crowd and the press are gathered around his wife (40s, lots of plastic surgery) and daughter (11) who are on the porch of their 12,000-square-foot mansion. ... And so if you elect me governor, promise to take care of California the same way take care of my own family; with compassion, caring, kindness, and most of all, with an interest in everyone. My friends... (catch phrase) 'California is my family!' The crowd cheers and waves "Gluckman For Governor" signs. Speaking of family, I'd like to introduce my wife Bess... Bess smiles and waves. ... and my daughter, little Brenda. Brenda smiles and waves like a campaign-trail veteran. Any questions? The press begins shouting questions. Bill picks... Deb? Where's your son? Bill is instantly flustered and Bill's campaign manager (African-American, but the soul of William Buckley) steps in front of Bill. Thank you for all your questions, but we've run out of... Just then the ground shakes with a frightening Everyone quiets down -- is it an earthquake? As the again, the surface of the water in the koi pond ripples, a la Jurassic Park. Reporters look around anxiously as another Bill's face falls as he sees... The Escalade rolls into the driveway, hopping up and down on its amped-up hydraulics like something from Crenshaw Boulevard on a Friday night. The rear doors pop open and (a.k.a. dressed head to toe in hip-hop gear, steps out of the passenger side. Yo yo yoooo! Listen up, y'all! He lays down a beat "human beat box"-style as (a.k.a. climbs out. She's big, wearing short shorts, a tight leather halter, huge hoop earrings and oversized designer sunglasses. Y'all better chill... Next out is (a.k.a. a skinny Persian kid with cornrows. ... 'cuz B-Rad about to get ill!!! The driver's door swings open, and a gleaming white pair of four hundred dollar, untied Nike sneaks as they step to the pavement; we Nike sweats, to wearing a do rag under his Nike baseball cap. Yo! What's up all you media people?! This is B-Rad kickin' it real from the 'bu, represizzin'!!! Four fine white girls in bikini tops, vinyl shorts and Timberlands come out and dance behind Brad, shaking everything they've got. Reporters move in like vultures. 'Y'all gathered here on this special occasion. Listen to my pops, he's your West Coast liaison' So show up, don't make me throw up. Take out your purse and cough some dough up. My chickens get wit you, if you vote right. And don't worry y'all, cuz my girls is tight. Immigration, education, runaway inflation. California ain't flowin' like old constipation. Vote Bill on your election ballot. If you don't I'm gonna hit you wit a mallot! Get Glucked y'all! Tom again steps in and blocks Brad from view. That's it for today, guys, very busy schedule, thank you!! Reporters shout questions as Tom herds Bill up the steps. Two staff members hustle Brad into the house. Bill Gluckman's election team and work the phones as Tom paces; Bill stares out the window, lost. What's the damage? We're down nine points in the polls. In fifteen minutes? And dropping. It's a disaster. What's the spin? called the Times and the Chronicle, they're gonna play the whole thing off as a joke. Thank God. How the hell did this happen? have no idea. thought he was out of town. Jen, gave you specific orders to get some handlers and keep Brad locked down until after the announcement. did! They flew to the ranch in Maui last night! Maui?! Wasn't he at the villa in South Hampton? thought he was at the chalet in Aspen. (checking laptop) Nope... It was the compound in Bermuda. Oh for God's sake! Can't we -- Brad enters and Tom shuts up. Yo, Pops, that was off the hizzook! just got you another million votes right dare! Brad's pants are so baggy, they fall to his ankles, exposing his boxers. Brad pulls them up. What are you doing here, son? knew had to show up in order for you to blow up. So had Captain Tony fire up the Lear jizzy and booya! I'm in da hizzy, gonna be on the campaign trizzy, 24/seven, you know, kissin' babies and whatnot. Pound it! Brad holds out his fist and Bill reluctantly hits it. On his way out, Brad chest-bumps Tom. Bill, you've got to shut this down, now. Tell Brad he can't work with you, period. No, no. love his enthusiasm... It's just a little misguided. There must be something he can do for the campaign, where he can't hurt us. Such as...? don't know... phones, stuffing envelopes, making signs, something. Bill is at the end of a stirring speech to the Women's Organization of California. ... in Bill Gluckman's administration, women will have better health care, women will have better day care, and women will have better jobs! From here on in, my campaign has a new slogan! Tom signals Brad, who enthusiastically yanks a cord, and we... unfurls behind Bill. It is spray-painted graffiti-style, and reads: Brad looks on proudly; Tom closes his eyes, a migraine kicking in. An angry mob of women chase the limo as it backs down the driveway full speed. (stunned, hollow) Bill Gluckman's down with the bitches and ho's'? It was supposed to read, 'Women are first with Gluckman.' That's old school. Pops, you got to keep your pimp hand strong. The limo pulls in. Bill, Tom and Brad get out. Peep y'all later. I'ma go work on my new campaign rhyme, 'Election Erection.' It's gonna be large! Yo! I'ma start on a new sign. He heads for the house. That's it, Bill. If Brad doesn't straighten up, your political career is finished. No, Tom. promise you, will not lose this election over my son. What are you going to do? Set up an appointment with my shrink. Plush. Brad sits unhappily on an overstuffed couch opposite Bess and Bill sit off to the side. So... Bradley... Why you keep callin' me dat? Well that's your name, isn't it? It's my slave name, a'ight? told you like fi'ty times. (sighs) Yes, okay... B-Rad... Wassup? Let's play an association game. He picks up three CD's, keeping the backs to Brad. Alright, B-Rad. want you to look at these... He turns the first one around. It's an Next is a Snoop then a Naz and last is Brad's high school yearbook photo. Now, which one doesn't belong? Shoot. fool. They broke up a long time ago. (losing temper) Dammit, Brad, stop acting like a gang member. You're from Malibu, you live in a nice home... With nice maids! Bill, Bess, go to your happy places. Bill sits back, frustrated. What are your goals, B-Rad? What do you want out of life? To be the biggest rapper dere ever was! See, got something to say, and need the world to hear it. I'm the shiznit. I'll buy y'all cars! see. And when did you first start feeling like you were this... shiznit? Oh, damn... way back in the day. I've had these beats in my head since was a little shortie... Toddler Brad (3 years old) sits on the floor, playing with a toy as Brad's housekeeper (African- American, thirty) vacuums, while listening to her Walkman. The Gladys pulls off her Walkman headphones and answers the Gluckman residence. Brad takes the headphones and pulls them over his ears. No, Bill and Bess are out of the country until December. His eyes go wide as the hip-hop gold enters his head for the first time... From then on it was hip-hop 24/seven. sits alone at the table, wearing a Run hat (a la "Rock Box", playing with his food. His headphones, around his neck, Finish those vegetables, Bradley. You can't be excused until you do. Tch. Forget y'all. on the table across from Brad is a video conference system. Both parents are on separate monitors -- Bess's has a sign that reads, "Paris," and Bill's reads, "Tokyo." There is a place setting in front of each monitor, as if they're dining with him. That's it, mister. When we get home... sometime in the near future... you're going to be in big trouble!! Using the remote, Brad changes the channel on his parents' monitors to "Yo Raps." What I'm sensing, Brad, is that your parents weren't really there for you. Nope. (defensive) That's ridiculous! What about your bar mitzvah? Bill and Bess enter with suitcases. The house is crowded with relatives and Brad's 13-year-old friends. Mazel tov, Bradley! fifty and fat, with prayer shawl and yarmulke, moves past them and calls out to Brad: What's the theme of your party, kid? Star Wars? Baseball? Superheroes? dressed like Flava Flav, a big clock around his neck, looking like he's just smelled a fart. It's bitch! Brad exits through French doors, and as we him It's like we've suddenly stepped into a hard-core rap video -- big-bootied home girls in bikinis freak with clean-cut Jewish kids as the staff serve barbecue and malt liquor to the freaked-out guests. Among them, we see a 13-year-old and all nicely- dressed for temple. Above, a huge spray-painted banner reads: Bess sniffles and dabs her eyes. Bess, I'm sensing you'd like to share. B-Rad, you're a wonderful son... it's just that, well -- Oh stop beating around the bush, Bess. What we're trying to say is, Brad, that your behavior is, well, it's an embarrassment to the family. Yo, Pops, that hurts my feelings. I'm sorry, but it's the truth. Don't be hatin'. And, Brad... can't have you on the campaign any longer. What?! Oh that's how it is? A'ight then. I'm Audi! need to take a drive. Brad leaves, slamming the door behind him. What can we do, doctor? Well, his lack of parental guidance left Brad wide open to outside influence, allowing hip- hop culture to firmly imprint on his psyche. Do you think we can bring him back? (grim) don't know. This is the most advanced case of gangsta-phrenia I've ever seen. Oh no, not gangsta-phrenia! Brad relaxes in a lounge chair, wearing sunglasses and sipping on a forty. Bess enters wearing a Chanel suit. She sits on the lounge chair next to him. Bradley, know you're busy, but we need to talk. Brad lifts his sunglasses and turns to his mother. What's up? After our therapy session realized that your father and could have been better parents. We neglected you and feel terrible. - Rev. 8/22/02 (2nd Pink) For real? Yes. So from here on out I'm going to be a better mother. want to get closer to you... be there for you. If ever you need -- Just then, her She pulls it out from her hip and answers. Hello? Celeste! When did you get back?! What?! Oh my God! I've been waiting for that bag for six months! (to Brad, covering phone) It's my personal shopper. (back to phone) Stay right there. I'm on my way! She stands. So... where we... Oh yes. I'm always here for you, Bradley. Do you have my cell number? She hands Brad a piece of paper and exits. Brad pulls down his shades and takes a long sip from his forty. Brad sits at the massive dining room table as Gladys pours him a big glass of grape juice, then cuts up his food. Gladys? Yeah? Ever feel like you don't belong? All the time, baby. Most folks only feel comfortable around folks who are the same as them. When they meet someone different, they get scared and angry, wanna keep 'em down. What do you do about it? Nothin' to do but keep it real. Be proud of who you are. Yeah, you right... Gladys, when they gonna leave our people alone? (emotional) don't know, baby, just don't know... (notices Brad's plate) Eat your greens before they get cold, boy. Brad searches his pockets, pulls out a pager -- that's not it; pulls out another pager -- that's not it either; pulls out a two-way -- that's the one. (reading pager) Oh no, not again! He gets up and runs out of the room. Bill, Tom, the staff, and several of varying ethnicity are mid-meeting. How'd it go with Feldman? Great news. If he sees Brad five days a week, he says we'll see improvement in three to four years. But... the election's in two months. Right, good point. We've been brainstorming on some different approaches, and think we may have something solid here. I'm all ears. Guys? The team gathers around -- it's a gang pitch. Brad might act 'ghetto,' but let's face it, he's never been east of Beverly Hills. But what if we give him a little dose of reality? Let him get a firsthand look at the ghetto. You mean, have Brad actually... go there? Exactly. Sounds dangerous... It'll be perfectly safe. How does it work? We hire actors to play gangsters. They car-jack Brad, then take him on a 'tour' of the 'hood... give him a little taste of what thug life's really like. It might just scare the black out of him. Tom gets strange looks from everyone. Excuse me? Look, I'm as down as the next brother, guy... fellah. grew up in Compton, okay? But let's get over the thing and face facts. Unless we do something soon, Brad's gonna cost us this election. The team all nods. don't know... it sounds so drastic. Maybe drastic is what Brad needs, Bill. He is twenty-four. mean, what's he gonna do for a living, rap? They all chuckle. Bill sighs. Who do we get for the gangsters? Remember the anti-crime spot we shot last month? We've got it cued up. They turn to the and Gary hits On the monitor: Gluckman campaign ad plays. young, black gangbanger glares at camera. For too long, street violence has torn Californians apart... second banger glares at camera. Bill Gluckman wants to put our divisions behind us. We cut wide: to reveal Bill Gluckman standing in between the two gangbangers. He's in shirtsleeves, tie loosened. Fellas, instead of thinking of yourselves as what set you're from, or what crew you're rolling with, why can't you both be brothers. What do you say? guess we never thought of each other like that. Me neither, dawg. and Sean think is over, nod and shake hands. You see... (turning to camera) 'California is my family'... Cut to angle on Bill and the gangbangers playing basketball, having a wonderful time. If we work together as a family there's no telling how high we can go. Bill flies by, obviously from an trampoline, and soars over the gangbangers for a monster dunk. Freeze on: the two awestruck "gangbangers." As they talk we see Brad, out the window, raising a banner. Those are our guys, right there. Will he be safe? Absolutely. (fed up and confused) don't know... can't we just... He looks out the window and sees Brad's new banner. It reads, in graffiti colors: Alright, fine, just do it. Brad urgently runs into the Mali-Brew Coffee Shop (Starbucks clone), where he and his crew spend ninety percent of their time. He is stopped at the door by a very worried Mocha and Monster. Lemme go. You don't want to see him like dis. What happened? He O.D.'d again. Why didn't you stop him? tried, yo! How many did he do? Like twelve, thirteen, don't know! Damn. Twelve Frapachizzo's. Brotha's caffeined out. Move aside. Brad pushes past and looks on in horror at Hadji, pacing and talking to himself like a rabid dog on angel dust. I'ma get mine! Step, fool! I'll cut you, swear! Just chill, Hadji, we're here to help. What's up? (frenzied) was pickin' up aromatherapy candles at Illuminations for Moms, right? And the counter trick gave me lemon when specifically axed for lilac! Brad turns to Hadji. It's on now! "Fight The Power" as we -- Brad, followed by his crew, exit, ready for battle. We're still listening to only now it's a Muzac version, piped in through the mall's Brad, Hadji, Monster and Mocha strut through the mall. Rich shoppers get out of the way. Brad and his crew approach the Yo, fool! We got some hard-core drama 'bout to go down right neow!! Dat's right! Dis is our mall. Always was and always will be! Woof woof! Oh, Mr. Amiraslani. I'm so glad you came back. Our clerk accidentally gave you the wrong aromatherapy candles. Here you go. She hands Hadji a box marked "Lilac." You better be validatin' my parking? Of course, sir. Dat's what I'm talkin' 'bout. We get ours! Tom, standing by a limo, is speaking with Sean and dressed as their actual, preppy selves. (incredulous) Hold the phone, buddy... you want us to scare this kid until he starts acting like a nice little white boy again? Don't think you can handle it? Of course can handle it. studied at Juilliard for God's sake. Fantastic. Tom hands them a manila envelope. Here's some background information on Brad. pulls Brad's from the envelope. It is Brad, throwing the Malibu sign, surrounded by women in thongs with gigantic asses. The title, in graffiti font, reads: Malibootay? He considers himself a 'rapper.' Frickin' They all laugh. Tom hands them a checklist/itinerary. Okay, so here's the story -- it's your basic kidnapping... So we hold him for ransom? Right. But when you see him acting ghetto and all, it pisses you off so much, you tour him around the 'hood to show him what things are really like. (hands a list) had my guys brainstorm a few ideas... (reading list) 'Mugging, drive-by shooting, crack deal gone bad...' Why don't you have him steal some watermelon while you're at it? Pays fifteen grand apiece. (quickly) We're in. Good. Wait -- we're kidnapping him, couldn't we get arrested? Got you covered. Mr. Gluckman's a billionaire -- if you run into any problems with the law, we're very close with the commissioner. On the flip side, if you screw up and a single hair is touched on Bradley's over-privileged head, will make sure that you do serious time. Clear? Cris... tal. Good. What about the money? Pulls out a smaller envelope. Five up front, twenty-five when you return him to us, white. ... As the driven snow. I'll call you. Tom gets in the limo and leaves as Sean and head for their car. Congrats, my brother. We just booked another gig. Yeah, but it's totally dangerous, dude. You know what it's like in the 'hood. We could get shot! We can handle ourselves. Come on, man, it's the ultimate acting challenge. You know what really chaps my ass? After years of training and study, the only parts they'll give us are gangbangers. Just once I'd like to play a character who has decent grammar and doesn't wear Timberlands. Beats gettin' dunked on by Bill Gluckman. Do we even know anybody down there? They think, then come up with it at the same time. My cousin. Shondra. in a Wienie In a Bun uniform, chewing gum and looking like she's smelling something nasty. She's at the counter facing Sean and studies the menu. You zooted, nigga? Honest to God. That's the stupidest thing ever heard. got better things to do with my time, boy. Like work at Wienie In Bun? Really. You're the one always talkin' about improvin' yourself. am improvin' myself, fool. broke up with no-good gang-bangin' Tec, I'm going to beauty school, then I'ma hook up my own salon... In the meantime, how about hooking a brother up with a Pepsi and some fries? Shut up, stupid. Do this, Shondra. You'll get some real money so you can quit this minimum wage crap and start up your business. What you payin'? grand. Make it trey, we on. Jesus Christ, three grand? Or you can kiss my ass. Deal. Now how about those fries? An as we... Sean sits on a second-hand couch in their barren, low- rent apartment, concentrating on reading an Ebonics dictionary. enters from outside, sweating and carrying a heavy box marked: He wears a stylish Nike baseball cap. We're strapped now, my brother. He sets the box down and begins pulling out guns. They have everything we ordered? Glocks, Uzis, Tec-9s... takes off the cap to wipe his brow, revealing that his hair has been braided into cornrows. What the hell is that? Oh, my hair? Shondra just did it. (off Sean's look) What? You hate it? No. just think it's a choice my character would have made. Don't go there, Sean. You're just jealous you didn't think of it first. Whatever. Sean enters with a big box marked He has on a wig identical to Larenz Tate's braids and beads in Menace Society. Okay, got the gangsta wear. bursts into laughter. What's so funny? That wig, man! didn't know this was Halloween. Bring me back some candy! He doubles over, falling on the floor. Whatever. Sean yanks the wig off and whips it into the corner. has on baggy jeans. Sean yanks them down so his boxers are hanging out. smiles -- perfect. and Sean, now in full gangsta gear, practice their pimp struts... Sean and stand side by side in front of a full-length mirror, practicing making angry faces and pulling guns from their pants, as we... His face filled with rage. Gimme your ride, punk, or will dust yo ass! to reveal watching Sean, shaking his head. Nope, you're not convincing me. Remember your core character. You're an oppressed black man from the ghetto. Yeah, know, I'm having trouble finding this one. Lemme try it again. Gimme your ride, punk, or will dust yo ass! Add a 'beeyotch' and think you're there. the from our Mocha's as we... as a car door opens, boots hit the pavement, and Shondra's incredibly fine ass slides We it as it moves to: Shondra enters, looking ghetto fab hot. People look at her like she just landed from Mars. She raises her sunglasses, sees Brad and crew playing dominoes at a table. Brad slaps down the winner; points at Monster. I'm thin to win! (raps to Monster) 'The name is B-Rad, Not Robbie Van Winkle... Go get my latte nonfat, And don't forget the sprinkle!' They pound and congratulate Brad on his brilliance. Shondra drops her shades back down and moves in. Hadji sees her first. His jaw drops, then he tugs on Mocha's shirt, whose jaw drops, then Mocha tugs on Brad's shirt. Yo, what up, fool? I'm -- Brad sees Shondra and freezes. Everything goes strutting toward him. Girl you fly. Thank you. Let me get them tig ol' bitties. Word up. She throws open her shirt, and before we see anything we... His eyes go wide, then we're... Brad snaps to as Shondra brushes by and then moves to the counter. Can help you? Coffee. Tall, Grande, Venti, nonfat, soy -- Big... (pointed) ...black. (to Barista) Yo, Krista the Barista. Put it on my account. (to Shondra) Get yourself a blueberry scizonne too, girl. Cool, playa. She smiles. Brad follows her over to the condiment table. ain't seen you in here before. Where you reside? Compton. You? The streets. Which streets? Malibu... Represent. Bard throws the sign. Right. guess it's pretty hardcore up in here. Hell yeah. (points to his crew) I'm down with the Hustlers. And dems over dere... Brad points to three white wannabes in another corner. The Calabasis Crabs... and behind dem... We another table, where four thug posers sit. ... the Palaside Pimps. Damn. How do you deal? All day every day. She smiles seductively. Was that you droppin' rhymes when came in? Hell yeah, I'm a rhyma on tima... Brad hands her his Mali-boo-tay, huh? Looks phat. You gettin' any air play? I'm holdin' out for Power 106. sent Big Boy a he just ain't gotten back to me yet. Sounds just like that fat fool. I'll talk to him 'bout it. (blown away) Hold dup? You know Big Boy? Hell yeah. see him at the swap meet almost every Sunday. For rizzill?! For rizzeal. Yo. Holler at him for me. don't know. guess you do kinda got it goin' on... It's funny. was just on my way down to see him. Wanna roll with me? Now? (thinks) Well, tonight was my Seder dinner... Just helping out a brotha. (kisses Chai) Let's bounce. I'm just gonna hit the ladies' room, a'ight, pimp juice? She heads off. Brad turns to his posse. Yo, y'all, this fine dimey is hookin' me up with Big Boy hisself. Shut up! ain't lyin'! They pound, shake, hug. Yo, but what about us? Start droppin' beats. Soon as sign with Biggy, we gonna need some sick tracks. Bet! They all pound as Mocha starts throwing beats. Shondra's on her Nextel cell phone. It's on. Sean listens to Shondra on his Nextel, then looks at and nods gravely. They drive along the Santa Monica Freeway, heading east. So what do you rap about? Oh, can rap about anything. For real? Yeah, lemme kick it freestyle. (raps) 'Traffic, traffic, Lookin' for my Chap Stick, Feelin' kinda carsick, There's a Ford Maverick...' (back to talking) See? Dat's a million-dollar song right dare. So, how did you get to be so down? been a playa all my life, girl. And must say, of all the sisters been wit', you de finest. So, you got a man? (bitter) did, but just got through kickin' his sorry ass to the curb. ain't nobody's 'gangsta hoochie.' am an entrepreneur. Word. (then) What's that? businesswoman. Oh. One day I'ma have a chain of beauty salons all up in the 90210, just like Starbucks, only instead of coffee, with hair and nails. Makin' sick money turnin' all the rich hoochies ghetto fab. That's genius, girl. Damn. You fine and smart too. You gonna blow up huge, no doubt. She's taken aback by his sincerity. She doesn't get much validation from guys. Thank you. For real, girl. You like a cross between Martha Stewart and Oprah. I'ma call you Mothrah. She gives him a strange look, then notices where they are. Take this exit. Brad swerves across three lanes of the freeway to take the exit, and suddenly finds himself actually in South Central. He's awestruck -- he notices a homeless guy with a shopping cart loaded with bags of stuff. Yo. He really should use delivery. Suddenly Sean pops his head into the car and stares directly at Brad. He puts a prop Tec 9 in Brad's chest and yanks him out of the car. Gimme yo ride, punk, or will dust yo ass... beeyotch! What?! You're gettin' jacked! Move! Shondra?! Shut up, fool! Dis a come-up?! No. It's a stickup. think I'm gonna throw up. And I'm about to wet you up if you don't move! (meekly) Does this mean we're not going to Big Boy's? Big Boy's? What this fool talkin' about?! You jus' been kidnapped. They throw Brad in the car and get in. Sean takes off. Kidnapped?! Yeah. We got your rich Gluckman ass now! How you know me? We saw you on the news the other night! (mocking) B-Rad! Your papa's gonna pay or you're gonna pay! Brad sneaks out his two way and types in... as Brad's frantic message pops on: "911! 911! hand slaps a domino violently down next to the pager as we... Monster has just slammed down the winner, and the with Brad's message flies off the table and on the floor. Monster, Mocha and Hadji are unaware. Bam! Y'all owe me seven hundred dollars! Hadji reluctantly hands her a wad of cash as she laughs. A'ight, come on now, let's stop messing around. told us to lay down some beats for the new album. Lemme go free style. Free style, please! Your momma rap better than you. Don't you talk about my momma. I'll talk about your momma all want. You ain't got the bizalls, bitch! Oh yeah? Peep dis. Your momma's so poor, when she shops at Barneys, she has to drive herself! Oooh! Yeah? Well your momma's so poor, when she went to Monte Carlo, she flew commercial. Dang! Your momma's so poor, her round the world cruise ended in Spain! Bam! Your momma's so poor, when she stayed at the Four Seasons, she could only afford three. Oh damn, it's on now! The pulls into Shondra's driveway and to a stop. hauls Brad out of the back as Sean climbs out. Let's get him inside. Dang. Why you doin' this to a brother? brother? Oh no you didn't. Whose brother? Yours, y'all. I'm down. Down? God damn! Uh-oh. You done did it now. You are not black! You can never be black. And your perpetratin' ass is stealin' the only thing got -- my culture! What the hell makes you think you know what's goin' down in the 'hood?! You think this is a joke, wigga?! I'm sorry. Don't be hatin'. You a long way from the beach now, punk! You in South Central. The ghetto. The 'hood. It's hard core up in here! People here die every day! Two are walking by. Hey, Shondra! Can you come on by later? Princess just had her litter of puppies. (seeing Brad looking puzzled by this; waving) Okay then. (covering) They're pit bulls. Mean pit bulls. Now get ya ass inside. thru thru Sean and push Brad in. Bars are on the windows. Sean pats Brad down, and pulls out his pager. You got anything else on you, fool? Uh... just this... Brad pulls out another pager, a phone, another phone. Sean and both pull several more out of his other pockets, as well as his wallet. All that James Bond electronic crap can't save you now, fool. Sit ya ass down. Brad does, and duct-tapes his hands behind his back. We gonna go call yo daddy. You better pray he home. If he not, you're one dusted trick! Sean, and Shondra exit, slamming the door behind them. Sean and immediately drop their bad-ass personas. Did you buy my rage? You're indicating. I'm indicating? (imitating) will smoke your dumb wigga ass'? Come on. (imitating back) 'If he not, you're one dusted trick!' Please! Would you two fools shut the hell up? Sure, Shondra, sorry. You're on. Go play good cop. We've gotta call Tom. Shondra rolls her eyes and heads back into the room. Shondra enters. Brad turns away. You a'ight in here? Oh yeah. just been kidnapped, carjacked, hands tied behind my back, but other than that, it's all good. Look, I'm sorry about all that, it wasn't my idea. thought you liked me. do. Then how come you set me up? had to. They... (emotional) ... they threatened to kill me if didn't play along. (wide-eyed) For real? Oh yeah. They straight-up killas. (even more wide-eyed) For Real?! Lemme school you on something, help you to stay alive, a'ight? The one thing they hate more than anything, that really sets them off, is posers. feel you, girl, me too. I'm talkin' 'bout you! Me? But hate posers! got a Ph.D. -- a Poser-Hater Degree. Come on. Quit frontin'. ain't fron'in'. Listen to reason. If you just be a nice little white boy and say you're sorry, think can convince them to let you go. Damn. am who say am. Why won't anyone believe me? This is a issue that's been comin' up a lot in my life lately. Shondra exits, shakes her head "no" to Sean and What's next? refers to the itinerary they got from Tom. How about... number three? Yeah, perfect. Let's take it to another level, my man. He and "get into character" and head in. They enter and glare at Brad. A'ight, we put the call in to yo pops, and you know what he said? Huh? That he'd have to think about it. (incredulous) What? Straight up? He's not sure he wants you back, cuz. Can't see as blame him. Come on, y'all, quit hatin'. I'm just a rapper, that's it. Wigga please! Sean cuts the duct tape with a blade. Come on. What you doin', fool? I'ma teach this little white girl a lesson! No, dawg, stick to the plan. Lay low here at the crib 'til we get the ransom. The plan just done changed, Tree. Wannabe claims he down, I'ma show him just how un-down he is. Sean yanks Brad out by his collar. Sean pulls in and parks in front of a small Korean grocery. A'ight, Malibu, go get us six 40s of And a fifth of Henny. (to Sean) Anything else? I'd like some Pringles. This ain't a picnic, bitch! I'm sorry, I'm sorry... y'all got some duckets, 'cause I'm tapped. You about to go up in there and give this Korean bitch yo ends? Hell no. You jack that shit. And if the Asiatic gives you any static, show the brotha this... He hands Brad one of the prop guns -- a Glock. It's heavier than Brad thought. He drops it. Little trick claims he down, can't even swing a gat. But... Do it, punk, or I'll use that on you. Okay, a'ight, I'll do it. You try to get away, I'ma let you get a little taste of my steel, understand? He holds up his prop gun. feel you. Brad sticks the prop gun into his pants and gets out. As soon as he's in the store, Sean and burst into laughter. This is gonna be classic. He's gonna run out of there a scared little white boy. They laugh again and pound it. Brad walks in, very nervous. He looks back -- his car is parked so that can see him through the door. smiles and shows him the gun again. Brad swallows and approaches the counter. The behind it watches him closely. Yes? Yeah, uh, where the Old English at? Back there, under security camera. Thank you, sir. Brad hurries to the back of the store, and spots a door by the beer cooler. He tries to open it. It's locked. Brad looks up to the security mirror and sees that the Korean Guy is watching him. He moves to the beer cooler and tries to calm down. Namyoho renge kyo, namyoho renge kyo, namyoho renge kyo and whatnot... It's not working. Brad tries a cleansing breath. It doesn't help either. Brad gathers up an armful of Old English 40s and heads for the front. The Korean Guy watches him as he walks past the counter toward the door. Can help you? Naaw, but I'ma help myself to all this and whatever else want! No, stop. Brad drops the beer. It to the floor in Brad makes a crazy, threatening face as he pulls back a fist, but the Korean Guy throws a fast right hand, landing squarely on Brad's chin. Brad goes down like a sack of hammers; then we Moments earlier: We realize we've just been in a fantasy, as Brad again approaches the counter with his beer. Can help you? (nervous) Let me axe you something. Ever been robbed? Oh sure. Last week was my fifty- fourth time. But they were cool, no gun to head, never scream; you know, good people. Cool. He sets the 40s on the counter, then reaches into his waistband for his gun, and we... How much did you have to give this guy, anyway? What are you talking about? (slowly) When you set this thing up yesterday, what did you pay? thought you set it up. You mean the owner doesn't know this is all fake? Oh damn. Get in there! He could get shot! I'm not going in there! You go in there! They continue to argue as we... Brad finishes reaching into his waistband for the Glock, but feels something else. He pulls out a small wallet that was Velcroed to his belt. My emergency stash. Thank you God. He pulls out a hundred and kisses it. (cheerful) Glad you got cash, 'cause if you try to jack me, was gonna have to lay you out wid dis... He whips a .44 from under the counter and aims it at Brad. ... and wid dis. The Korean Guy's wife has an on Brad, the red dot of its laser sight trained steadily in the middle of his forehead. ... And wid dat. The Korean Guy's six-year-old boy has a sawed-off shotgun pointed at Brad's knees. The gun is bigger than the boy. The Koreans laugh at Brad. Brad drops the hundred on the counter. Keep the change. (ringing it up) Thank you very much. Come again. As Brad looks out to make sure and Sean haven't seen anything, the Korean Guy sticks the receipt in between two of the 40s. Unaware, Brad gathers his stuff and heads to the door. Uh, know this is gonna sound wack, but what I'm about to do is just a joke, so don't shoot me, okay? Sean and who are just running up to the door, watch stunned as Brad exits the store, pulling his gun out. That's right! Next time I'll bust a cap in yo trick ass! Did he actually do it? This can't be happening. (still shouting) Yeah. I'ma come back later and get some more. Brad turns to the guys. Let's dip! (incredulous) You did it? Straight up. Trick didn't do nothin'. Yo, what up with this? pulls the receipt off of his 40. If you jacked this, how come you got a receipt? Brad freezes. They both stare at him. stole that too! Bill and Tom lie facedown on matching massage tables, while massage therapists rapidly pound their backs. Tom is reading the itinerary through the face hole in his table. As the masseuses pound their backs, Tom and Bill's voices vibrate. ... a meet and greet with Greenpeace, then drinks with the offshore oil lobby. face through hole. Terrific. How's the Brad project doing? Smooth... he's in South Central. And he's okay? He's in excellent hands. Sean, holding Brad by the shirt, slams him against the Escalade. I've about had it, boy! Who you callin' boy? You got about five seconds to get real, or I'ma Timbo stomp your ass to de curb! What do you mean, get real?! Act your white self! He shoves a prop gun into Brad's ribs. Five! Four! (freaking) Okay, a'ight, chill. Brad takes a deep sigh, looks them in the eye, and begins to talk like a conservative white guy. guess now know can never be as cool as you guys. promise will never, ever front or act like a thug again, and I'm really really sorry if offended you. Sean and move off to the side. You buying it? can't tell. Me either. Let's give him the test. Brad, in the seats, eating popcorn non-stop. He is flanked by Sean and They both watch Brad, as he stares at the horror film play on the screen. (off Brad's look) You a'ight, man? Brad snaps out of it for a minute. ("white" guy) Great, fine. Terrific popcorn. Brad's eyes snap back to the screen. He struggles to contain himself. The we hear then a and Brad can't hold on any longer. He leaps up, screaming... (as himself) Run, bitch, ruuuuuuuuuuuuuun!!! He gonna kiiiiiilllllll you! Other Patrons (multi-ethnic) turn and angrily "shush" Brad. Sean and lock eyes: he failed the test. Sean and are furious. Brad is apologetic. I'm sorry, y'all, but this is just who am. I'm a rapper straight- up. Wigga, please! No, for real. can rap about anything. (goes into rap) 'Bloodbath and Tree, hang all day, They real tight, but they ain't gay... No, they okay...' (incensed) You think you got mad skills, huh? Well, we'll see about dat. Sean, and Brad approach the club. done had it with you, fool. You better check yourself before you wreck yourself. This ain't Malibu! (sotto) Represent. Yeah, we gonna see what you represent neeow. We at the club. Cube, Snoop, they all came up through here. You want to prove yourself, this the place to do it. They shove Brad into the club, then turn to each other and giggle like school girls. This is definitely gonna do it. Pay day! They pound and follow Brad into the club. Brad enters and takes in the club. Think 8 Mile. Hardcore and some tough check out rapper, whose ferocious, gravel-voiced raps show you exactly what kind of place you're in. How you feelin' now, Malibu? Finally, a place where feel at home. (disgusted) Get yo' ass in there. Brad boldly fist-shakes jaw-dropped patrons as he wades through the crowd, "Whassup?" and "Pardon me, homey." finishes and the brings up and announcing the Battle Rap Competition. Steel and Young Dre battle -- both are top-notch. At every insult, the crowd Shondra is talking to a checking out the crowd below. She suddenly sees Brad. She's eyes-wide horrified. Steel finishes, the crowd and Young Dre starts in on the mic. Sean and leave Brad and fight through to the table, where the is standing, timing Young Dre. Brad looks around, then up. He sees Shondra and starts for the stairs. Hey, girl. Where you been? She turns and faces her ex-boyfriend, a no-nonsense roughneck gangbanger. He's very soft-spoken, almost expressionless. None of your damn bizness, Tec. Now let go. She yanks her arm away from him. Y'all been busy, huh? Too busy for you. You been gettin' busy? Hell no. Come on, girl, I'm cool. Just tell me who it is. All you need to know is that it ain't you, okay? You know, you ain't shit, Shondra. You're just a chickenhead, and that's all you'll ever be. Just then, Brad walks up, grinning like a fool. What up, girl?! He gives her a sloppy kiss on the cheek. You a'ight? I'm fine, but you the finest! (to Tec) She a genius too, man! I'm tellin' you, one she gets set up, Mothra gonna blow up like Rosie O'Donnell's head! Don't tell me you been hittin' that? She tries to pull away, but Tec holds on tight. Damn, man. Don't you know how to treat a lady? That's not nice. Brad, don't -- It's cool, Shondra. The brutha's right. Tec releases Shondra's arm and immediately grabs Brad by the throat and hangs him over the balcony. Didn't yo mama teach you to mind you own bizness? (being strangled) Don't be hatin'. Don't do it, Tec! Auuuuuuuuu! Tec feels everyone looking at him. Now is not the time. He releases Brad and composes himself. Y'all both gonna be sorry. Tec stalks off. You alright? (coughs) I'm okay. Who was that? Old history. Come on. Shondra grabs Brad and moves him to the stairs. Sean and finally make it to the who stands with the Yo! Sean bumps the table. vicious look from the as Sean tries to play it off. The just looks at him disdainfully. Uh... My boy want Young Dre next. The looks them over... Hell, nah... Maybe a C-Note would open some... equal opportunities? (takes the cash) What's his name? B-rad. From Malibu. The makes a face, but puts down Brad's name anyway. (enthusiastically) Hey playa... You got any Will Smith back there? The just looks at him... Shondra hauls Brad down the stairs and stops near the entrance. Damn Shondra, where's the fire at? (fishing in her bag) You're going home. You settin' me free? No. I'm savin' your ass. I'm not havin' your blood on my hands. (hands him keys) It's the blue Honda across the street. A-ight y'all. Up next, to challenge Young Dre, we got... rad from Malibu. Looks of confusion, as the Crowd searches for "B-rad." Wait a second. Brad, don't do it. Brad turns to Shondra, looks at the keys, and shakes his head. Shondra, gots to do 'dis. this is my shot. gotta prove myself. Shondra can't argue. Brad starts to the stage. as the crowd realizes who B-rad actually is. This is gonna be like an episode of 'Oz.' Brad gets his game face on and walks the gauntlet on his way to the stage -- an imposing path of intimidating looks. He is then dragged up onto the stage. He misinterprets the as encouragement and tries to high-five the crowd -- no takers. The and Young Dre laugh at him. Nah, nah, nah... ain't gonna battle no bitch. What am Ike Turner? The crowd Brad cluelessly laughs along with them. A-ight, a-ight... We gotta do this. Yo, Saltine... Heads or tails? Tizzaizzlszzs! Everyone is totally confused. (apologetic) Tails... want tails. The flips and "tails" it is. You wanna go first? Nah... Ladies first. Brad turning to the crowd to appreciate his lame burn... Nothing. Young Dre looks furious. Young Dre grabs the mic and the spins. Young Dre proceeds to incinerate Brad. With every line, the crowd goes insane. Actual Young Dre Rap to Come.) As Young Dre flows, Brad is visibly shaken, but tries to play it off -- not so discreetly scribbling notes on his hand and up his arm. Young Dre finishes with devastating blow, dropping the mic on the stage. The crowd goes wild... Whooo... Now, let's see if this Eminem melts in yo ass and in your hand. The kicks the beat and the throws Brad the mic. He misses it and it drills him in the forehead. The crowd Brad tries to regain his composure... Can we start again? lost my place. and as the beat plays again. Brad wags his head, ready to come in strong. He looks down at his notes... He's sweating so badly his arm is a mess of runny ink. He freezes again... The crowd is really on him now -- collectively making the "choke" sign. I'm cool... I'm cool. Brad finally starts up. 'You big and rough, You act all tough, bet in your childhood You never had much love. (finishing) Alert the media, I'm a rap encyclopedia, My shrink says suffer from a case of gansta-phrenia, I'm tryin' to be meania, I'm feeling much vigor, I'm the "Bu's" number one, hardcore Complete silence. (terrified, to Let's get the hell out of here. Brad looks around as blank faces stare back at him. I'm sorry... The crowd erupts with outrage and rushes the stage. with terror as he's passed hand-over-hand above the (crowd surfing-style) toward the exit. Four run Brad out of the back door, into the... ... where they launch him into the dumpster with a resounding Brad's landing causes the lid to violently shut, and forces Sean and who've been hiding behind it, to pop up. What was that? comes from the dumpster and they pull back the lid. Inside the dumpster where Brad lies in the bottom -- his fall was broken by several loaves of old Wonder Bread. and Sean fall into hysterics, as Shondra emerges from the club. She finds and Sean apoplectic with laughter, shakes her head and begins to help Brad out of the dumpster. Tec watches it all going down. 20, skinny but tough-looking chollo, and not a member of Tec's crew, is standing next to Tec. You gettin' played, ese. Excuse me? (laughing) Loco boy hittin' your lady, homes, and she's diggin' it. Yeah, Snuffy, that's right. Tec starts to laugh, then suddenly his fist explodes into Snuffy's face. Snuffy drops, and Tec starts to stomp him until his boys, and pull him off. Not here, Tec. A'ight, y'all, let's roll. Whatchoo wanna do? Bag me a white boy. As they move toward the exit we... Sean and are laughing uproariously. Brad walks in between them, devastated. Shondra's behind, looking bummed out as they head for the car. Hey y'all, check this out. can rap about anything! Haaa!! Word. (bad white rapping) 'Listen, all you rappers, the name's Brad Gluckman. When on the mic you could say really suck man!' They burst out laughing. Brad just stares ahead, pouting, sick to his stomach. A'ight, y'all had your fun, why don't you chill... 'Cuz B-Rad about to get ill!!! They burst out laughing again as they head for the car. Damn. haven't laughed like that in a long time. 'Fess up, boy, you can't hang. just want to go home. Uhn uhn, ain't happening. By the way, forgot to tell you. We heard from your pops, and guess what? He ain't payin'. He thinks y'all belong down here in the 'hood with us brothas, seein' how you so 'down' and all. So, guess that means we got to ice your punk ass. don't care no more. got nothin' to live for. Go ahead and smoke me. Brad gets in the car. Sean and look at each other -- this isn't what they expected. Scene was formerly scene 54) Brad's lying on the bed, looking up dreamily. Psst. Hey, dawg. Huh? Down here, dawg. Brad looks over the edge of the bed. small gray looks up at him. Stuart Little? Negro, pleeeze. That little white rat ain't got nothin' on me -- yo, I'm Ronny rizat, represizzat. ain't never seen no talking rat before. Although at the Malibu County Fair they had a chicken that played tic tac toe. Man, hated losing to that chicken. Why you so down, dog? I'm a failure. Nah, nah it's not like that. You need to stop listening to what all them perpetrators is running and believe in yourself. For real? For riz-real. Pound it. They punch it in. So you saying if put my mind to it can be whatever want to be? Damn straight. could be a highstylin' pimp? They stylin-est. could drive a mad '63 El Camino with 43-inch gold-plated dubs and a trunk full o' bitches? - Rev. 1/29/03 You could have a roof rack full of bitches. And some teeny-tiny little bitches in the glove compartment. And could be the biggest rapper in the world. Rapper? Hell no! You stink! I'd rather eat garbage than listen to your tired ass rhymes. (thinks about it) Hmmm, garbage. That's making me hungry. Peace out. The Rat runs off. Brad sighs, flops back down on the bed, utterly depressed. Brad lays on the bed, moonlit through the bars of the window. Shondra enters. Brad rolls over, away from her. Hey... You okay? Brad sniffles. You know, it's not as bad as it seems. It's worse. Everybody's right. My rhymes is weak. You just need a little experience. should've run when you gave me the chance. Naw. You were right. respected you for getting' up there. But you heard 'em laughing. ain't nothin' but a busta. They just don't understand you. None of them know how hardcore it is up in... Malibu. (perking up) Yeah? Yeah with the... traffic, and the... parking, and... (getting excited) Like, when the public be all up in your private beach? Right. You just got to stick with it, you know, don't let anyone tell you who you are. Brad smiles, looks at her. Thanks, Shondra. (beat) You know what was sayin', earlier, in the car, about being a playa and all? Well... was just foolin'. never been with a sister before. (mock surprise) For real? Except for on the internet. never would've known. (shy) think you about the finest girl ever met in my whole life, and, well, since they gonna ice me in the morning, was wondering... could kinda like, kiss you? She thinks, smiles, then sits down next to him on the bed. Brad sits up and looks at her face in the moonlight. You're so pretty. Thank you. Brad leans in and kisses her tenderly. She kisses him back. Encouraged, Brad opens his mouth wide and tries to stick his tongue down her throat. She pushes him back. said kiss, fool. Damn. She gets up and heads for the door. offered you a snack, not the whole kitchen. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm chill. She rolls her eyes and leaves. Brad falls back on the bed, a dreamy smile on his face. Totally chill. Tec, with his crew, drives up, lights out, and the He looks at the house with death in his eyes. Shondra exits the room and faces Sean and A'ight, that's it, this game is lame. want my money, and then y'all can get out. But we're not done yet... You ain't never gonna be done. Did it ever occur to you two jackasses that this is the way he really is? No way. Not possible. Whatever. Look, did what you asked, and want my money. Okay, I'll get it, you know, but settin' everything up was expensive, and don't exactly have it right now. Excuse me? You playin' me? Shondra hands Sean the phone. Y'all get me my money now, or I'ma go in there and tell him what's up. Alright, okay, just relax... As Sean starts to dial, we -- thru thru Yes, Sean. How's our little project going? Great, terrific, we're making real progress here. Sean reads from the checklist Tom gave him. Your suggestions were really helpful. He totally bought the car jack and kidnapping... Brad listens intently as Sean continues. ... we staged a fabulous liquor store robbery. Mr. Gluckman's going to be very happy... Brad's eyes widen. But, he's still posing, so we wanted to put him in a drive-by shooting next... but, it's a little more money then our original projections... Brad slumps back. He can't believe it. So was wondering if could get an advance. No deal. You get the rest when Richie Cunningham steps through the door here, and not one second sooner, understand? But -- Mr. Gibbons, hello? Brad crawls out from the vent and goes to the mirror. Damn... they been playin' me all along. How could dey do dat? How could she do dat? (getting angry) What-ever. If them fools wanna play, then let's play. He heads for the door, bad-ass and hardcore. Suddenly, Brad's boot comes through the door. everywhere. Brad steps through with a furious look on his face. Shondra, Sean and stare in shock. What the hell do you think you're doing? Hey! Listen up... Brad is in da hiz, and things gonna start changin' round here! (to Sean) Do something. You must be out yo mind. Get back in that room before beat your ass! You feelin' froggy, den leap! Sean backs down. Anyone else wanna step? (slightly attracted) What the hell got into you? Shut up, ho. Who you callin' ho, ho? Yo, ho, the same ho that gave up that weak-ass kiss five minutes ago in the bedroom. Really? Damn. (pissed off) Who the hell do you think you are? I'm B-Rad from 'Bu, representin'! What y'all don't realize is that was tryin' to put my mobbin' days behind me, but rollin' with y'all done re-awoke my inna killa. Let's start droppin' bodies! Shondra, and Sean watch, stunned, as Brad grabs a prop gun, his car keys and heads out. Come on, girl. Let's go! Uhn uhn. You created that monster, you deal with it. But we got big a problem here. Until see my money, it's your problem. Sean and exit quickly. Brad's at the car door as Sean and exit and run up. Where the hell you goin'? need to take a drive. Come on, man. Chill. Today is a good day to die, didn't have to use my (Ice Cube-like) Yey yey! Why you talkin' crazy? (getting in car) Might as well go out in a blaze of glory. My daddy don't love me, my rhymes is played. ain't down enough for y'all -- (panicked) No. You down, right er, Tree? That's right, Bloodbath, he's very down. As down as they come. Suddenly, Tec jumps up, yanks Brad's door open and shoves a Nine in his side. Oh my God. Get out of the car, white boy. Oh, you dat weak fuck from de club. Tec can't believe what he's hearing. (not impressed) Got somethin' for me? (pulling a Tec 9) Just this cap, fool! You ready to die? Ain't that a coinky-dink? was just talkin' to my homies about just dat... Move! (getting out of car) A'ight, but y'all should change up your style, cuz these jackings is gettin' tired. He heads for Tec's car. Yo, Bloodbath, if there's one tiny scratch on my ride, I'ma eat y'all's children. (cheerfully) Shotgun! Tape up this fool's hole, man. crew member yanks out some duct tape and tapes over Brad's mouth, then they throw him in Tec's trunk and slam it shut. Tec steps up to Sean and What should we do with this Bloodbath and his friends? (panicked) I'm not Bloodbath! My real name is Sean James, I'm an actor. swear! Is Shondra hittin' the white boy? No way, man. She's in on the scam, just like us. Scam? Yeah. We're all being paid to pretend to kidnap Bill Gluckman's kid. Gluckman? The dude runnin' for Governor. You've heard of him? The dawg who's down with bitches and hoes? Hell yeah, I've heard of him. Just 'cause live down here you think I'm ignorant? We didn't say that, brother. A'ight then. (looks at Brad) Damn, we got Gluckman's son. Fool's gotta be worth more alive than dead. (to his crew) Let's roll. Tom and the campaign strategy team, Brett, Gary and Jen, are eating takeout, mid-meeting. All the polls say that since Brad's been out of the picture we're up six points. We're still dead in the urban demo, though. Gays too. There's no way we can win without them. The Yep? have a Sean on the phone for you, sir. Put it through. Sean is on a pay phone, terrified. Tec stands next to him. The Escalade and Tec's car are parked nearby. Tom, we have a real problem. told you, no more money. know you said that, but we're in real serious troub -- Tec rips the phone out of Sean's hand. Listen, fool. Gluckman's boy has been kidnapped for real, along with your punk friends. Excuse me? If Mr. Governor wants to see his punk bitch son alive again I'm gonna need five hundred grand by tomorrow midnight. How do know this is real? You think your actors are this good? Tec puts the phone up to Sean. Help us, please... (hiccup) I'm... (hiccup) so... (hiccup) Scared!!! Sean begins to wail. Tec yanks the phone back. Okay, I'm convinced. Good. Now get me my money. Fine... Please don't do anything until talk to Mr. Gluckman and arrange the finances. You got ten minutes. Tec hangs up. Now what? We wait. Behind, no one notices as a low rider cruises by slowly. It's Snuffy, his face swollen and bloody from the beating he took from Tec. He's with two of his homeboys, members of the Rollin' gang, checking out Tec and the crew. Is that him, ese? Yeah, that's Tec, homes, from the I-9's. Call Cyco, tell him to bring it all. We gonna have a party. The homeboy works his cell, as we: Tom stands there with the phone in his hands, shaken. What the hell's going on? Brad's been kidnapped for real. What? They want five hundred grand or they'll kill him. Oh my God. Now let's not panic. Lemme just think this through for a minute. We could have a very interesting opportunity here. Where are you going with this? Well, the negatives are obvious. Bill drops out of the race, emotional distress... can handle Bill. Let's brainstorm the positives. There's so many. No more 'Brad problem.' Right, right, I'm liking it. They start riffing on the idea, getting excited. With a dead son, the sympathy factor could give us big spike in the female and gay demos. We've had such a problem with Bill's rich guy image, we could spin the issue to make him more 'Everymen,' you know, 'crime touches everyone,' like that. What about a voter backlash, like how could he run on the heels of a tragedy? No -- we push the 'courage under adversity' angle. Helps with his leadership profile. Bill Gluckman, crusader/martyr... I've got the image -- Bill weeping over Brad's open casket. Then, after grieving appropriately, he goes on the offensive... Bill Gluckman's war on crime... ... drugs. ... gangs. War's hot now. War's great. It's just what we've needed. It's like a green light to Sacramento. Next stop, the White House. The and Tom picks up. Tec is on the phone. What up? No deal. Say what? Bill Gluckman does not make deals with criminals. That's it, then, fool. ain't playin'. His ass is done. You do what you have to do, and we'll do what we have to do. He hangs up and smiles. Tec hangs up; as he looks over, Brad is pulled from the trunk by two I-9s, his mouth still taped. Tec almost feels sorry for him. That's cold. (to crew) Lose the tape. Tec's homie rips the tape off Brad's mouth. God damn that hurts!!! get out of this I'ma hafta teach y'all some manners! Your daddy ain't payin'. Yeah, yeah, tell me somethin' don't know! What? You heard me, you half-steppin' moist-ass bitch! Tec cocks his nine and aims at Brad. (fearless) Oh what, you gonna do me like this? A'ight, then bring it. It's brought. Man up! Put this wannabe out of his misery. Tec is stunned -- the white boy isn't showing any fear. Brad steps forward, puts the gun to his own heart, and places his thumb on the trigger. That gat's real, right? Then do it or I'll do it myself (unnerved) Brotha straight-up crazy, and cannot deal with that shit. Suddenly erupts as Tech's car is with a of Brad, the crew, Sean and drop to the street and roll under the car. Tec has to dive behind a nearby dumpster. Snuffy and three Rollin' G's are crouched behind their low rider, away. The I-9s and Sean are in the fetal position, freaking out. Brad, thinking it's all fake, is laughing, having a great time. Lay down some cover, fool! Tec's pinned down behind the dumpster. He's without a weapon, and Rollin' G's are their on him. We're tryin', man, but they're too strapped. What the hell we gonna do? Punks. Gimme dem gats. Brad grabs the Uzis and rolls out from under the car. Y'all wanna play? Let's play! You know who you're dealin' with??? He jumps up on the hood of Tec's car and with both Uzis, laying down a withering rain of lead. I'm B-Rad from the y'all... (out Denzeling Denzel) King Kong ain't got nothin' on me! Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa! Damn. These special effects are the bomb! (resumes Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!! The Rollin' G's try to respond, but Brad's fire is too intense. Devil's got some balls. For real! Let's dip! They all hop in their convertible and tear-ass out of there as Brad jumps off the cars and follows on foot, after them as they turn the corner and away. It's safe now, y'all. Tec emerges from behind the dumpster. The crew rolls out from under the car, followed by Sean and They look at Brad in awe. They're impressed. That was ill! Y'all definitely got juice. He offers his fist to Brad. They pound. Where'd you learn that shit? Damn. Jus' reads the night's news. Good evening. Channel Five exclusive. security camera captured incredible footage of gang violence tonight, as it flared on the streets of South Central. of Brad, on top of Tec's car, the This hardcore gangster, believed to be the notorious 'White Kong,' leader of street gang, fires his weapons with wanton disregard for human life or personal property. in as he If you have any information on the whereabouts of this man, call our hot line at They sit in bed, stunned. Oh... She's on the couch, blocking a wig, stunned. ... my... Mocha, Hadji, and Monster, holding half-drunken lattes, are all staring at a mounted in the corner. ... Gaaaaa... Tom stares at the ... aaaaa... And then, in we ... oooooo... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... oooooo... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaa... ... oooooo... ... oooooo... ... oooooo... ... aaaaaa... ... aaaaaad! Dat is some hardcore shiznit, y'all! If dat's what you got to do to get on Big Boy's label, count me out. He ain't with Big Boy, fool! Rad's hangin' with some serious bangers! What we gonna do, Moch? Bounce to our respective cribs, jack our moms' and pops' biggest gats, jet down to South Central and save his ass. Word. But... what if they don't have coffee? Krista -- six Tsunamis to go! Bill storms in. Tom quickly switches the The staffers move aside as Bill confronts Tom. Bradley's been involved in a gang shooting. Are you positive? His face was on the news, Tom! think know my own son! I'm sure there's a logical explanation. Why don't you get some sleep -- Sleep? He's shooting the hell out of South Central. We've got to get him! What about the debate tomorrow in Sacramento -- Forget the debate! If you cancel, you can kiss this campaign good-bye. You can shove the campaign up your ass, Tom! will not lose my son over this election! understand you're upset, Bill, but Jesus, for once in your life think outside the box! We can make Brad's whole gang thing a positive... (incredulous) positive! If he's arrested or, God forbid injured, we spin it so you are the victim, you know, 'crime reaches everyone,' something like that... You're trying to get votes out of this? I'm trying to win, Bill, and you don't seem to care! I'm his father. (laughs) When did that happen? guess right now. Bill grabs Tom by the shirt and slams him into the wall. You're fired. As Bill takes off: All right, guys, let's pitch on how get my job back. They just stare at him. Guys? Just so you know, never liked the way you ran things around here. (walking out) Bill? Mr. Gluckman? The other staffers follow Brett out, leaving Tom alone. Bill hauls-ass down the 405, his headset on. This is Lojack. need a location on license number... (reluctant) That vehicle is at the corner of McKinley and 82nd. Suddenly a map of South Central appears, with a red blinking dot at the corner of McKinley and 82nd. Your destination is a Lojack designated danger zone. Lojack does not recommend you venture into this area. as Bill punches the gas, as we: party is happening: Homies slam dominoes... Home girlz drink beer and talk... Sean and are standing frozen in a corner, quietly crying... Hip-hop gangsters dancing... and finally we Tec and the other I-9's gathered around Brad, as Tec solemnly hands Brad a Tec 9 automatic pistol. That's yours, For real? You shouldn't have. Welcome to the 9's. Only way out now, is in a box. In a box... right. Brad laughs. They all join in, laughing hard as we -- Mocha, Hadji and Monster stand by Hadji's dad's Mercedes. A'ight, Monster, what kind of toast you strappin'? (proud) This. Monster pulls a scuba divers' spear gun from the bag. What the hell is it? My pop's spear gat. From the yacht. Mocha laughs and starts doing whale sounds. A'ight Free Willy, think you so bad, what you got? (embarrassed) Never mind. He puts an old musty case in the car and starts to close the doors. Hadji stops him. Come on, let's see it. A'ight, a'ight, chill. He opens the case, revealing an antique blunderbuss musket, with a flintlock hammer and a bell muzzle. Is that a freakin' musket? What? My pops is a collector. (off their looks) Come on, man, pirates used that shit. Monster grabs the musket and points it at Mocha. (imitating a pirate) Aargh, matey, give up yer treasure or I'll bust me harpoon in yer booty. Monster and Hadji start laughing. Shut up! Damn posers! He snatches the musket from Monster and carefully places it back in the case. Hadji, how 'bout you? Couldn't get much, yo... Hadji opens a duffel and pulls out three Kevlar vests. When told my pops we was going on a drive-by, he gave me three of these. Good thinking, but what heat you got? He opens a plastic case, revealing a Stinger rocket launcher and four missiles. ... dis. Mocha and Monster are blown away. Dang! Where'd you get all dat? (nonchalant) Christmas present from Uncle Ahmet. Mocha, Hadji, and Monster snap on their seat belts. Hadji flips on the in-dash Mercedes system. Yes, Mr. Amiraslani, can help you? Hell yes, chicken. need a location on license number The party is now in full effect, the system up and cranked as the Brad's in the middle of the dance floor, freaking and doing the robot with a couple of sisters. The girls whisper in his ear, he smiles, and they head for a bedroom. Just as they exit, Shondra enters from the kitchen, and finds Sean and still tied up and terrified. Where's Brad? (near tears) haven't seen anything. She moves on. lifts up his bound wrists. Shondra! Little help, please. But she's gone. Brad's on the bed with the two women, who are kissing him. Yeah, just got tested positive ... for (mock surprise) Cool playa. Let's get busy. They laugh when suddenly Shondra comes through the door. That's the same damn line he used on me, and now this no good deadbeat weak-ass white boy won't take care of little Malik. What?! (sniffles) You know he's yours... This gettin' heavy. Let's jet. The girls leave. Damn, why you throwin' salt on my I'm savin' your lily-white ass. Come on. ain't goin' nowhere. I'm a neow, straight-up. Peep my tat. Brad lifts his shirt and shows her the tattoo on his stomach: (urgent) Listen, fool. Shut up, Shondra! know y'all set me up, know it's all fake, de kidnap, de stickup, de whole nizzy. Oh, damn... Why'd you play me, huh? For the money. What you need money Money?! Tch. for? Look, fool, this may sound stupid to you, but not everybody has money, and to people that don't, money is important! Please. You prob'ly still flippin' me anyway, so -- Dammit, Brad, this is real. Tec and his crew are real -- Oh really? Well if Tec is real then this gat must be real... Brad pulls his nine. And if this gat is real then the in it have got to be real. caps And seein' how my foot is real, this would really hurt... then Brad aims at his foot and pulls the trigger and He puts a through the toes of his sneaks. See dat. just shot myself in the foot and... (feeling pain) It's reaaaaalll! It's totally reaaaaalll!!! Brad starts hopping around the room. just shot my foot!! just shot my foot!!! Stop hoppin' around, fool, so can look at it. Shondra gets down on her knees to get a closer look. Oh gaawwwd! Lucky you're such a weak shot. Cap just grazed your toe. But, it's real, Shondra, it's all reeeeeeeeeeeeeeeal! Tec enters, gun in hand. Who's the hell's poppin' ca -- Shondra, on her knees, kneeling before Brad. (menacing) What up, cuz? Shondra stands quickly, scared. (terrified, covering) Ha ha, Tec, my road dawg, yeah, just the man wanta see. (to Shondra) What's goin' on, Shondra? (nervous) It's not what it looks like, Tec, swear. Don't you lie to me. That was always my line to you, and it always was what it looked like. Now what's up with your boyfriend here. Yo, dawg, love to kick it wit' you and run the whole thizang, but got some bidness back in the 'Bu, li'l somethin' somethin' with Big Boy and whatnot, so if y'alls don't mind -- do mind. Tec grabs Brad and drags him out. No, Tec, stop! Tec hauls Brad in, followed by Shondra. The I-9s draw weapons; the room fills with tension. Sean and look on, getting caught up in the action. Wait, Tec, lemme explain, 'cause don't belong here... You done forgot already, fool? told you the only one way out of the I-9s, and your ticket's in this here chamber. Tec cocks his gun. watching Tec, riveted. See how committed he is? That's the rage was talking about. (in awe) Word. Tec aims at Brad. Please, don't be hatin'. Shondra steps in front of Brad. won't let you do it, Tec. No problem, then. I'll just do the both of you. Tec levels the barrel at Shondra and Brad. He starts to squeeze the trigger when suddenly Bill's through the wall. I-9's scatter and duck as the Hummer's front grill skids to a stop inches from Tec. The driver's door pops open and Bill jumps out. Damn fool! You just hit my house! (ignoring him) Brad! Are you okay? Not really. And unless you seriously strapped, you about to be not really okay too. Bill turns: six I-9s are aiming guns at he and Brad. Hey there, fellas. Bill Gluckman... I'm running for governor. We know who you are, fool. You the candidate that's down with bitches and ho's. Tsss. Dude think we ignorant just 'cause we live down here. You better recognize. absolutely recognize that street violence is tearing Californians apart... You see, guys, California is my family, and hey, here's a thought. Instead of thinking of ourselves as what set we're from, or what crew we're rolling with, why can't we just be brothers? What do you say? (thoughtful) Hmmm. guess never looked at it like that before. What do you say, 'brothers'? The I-9's smile, cock their weapons, aim them, and just as they're about to start blasting, the side and Hadji's dad's through. Don't anybody know where the driveway's at?! Damn! Gangsters fall back as Hadji, Mocha, and Monster jump out wearing the Kevlar vests and wielding their weapons. (freaking out) Better step, y'all, or I'ma have to waste all y'all up in this piece! Yeah! Drop yo gats! The I-9s, unafraid, point their guns right back at Hadji, Monster and Mocha. It's a multi-player Mexican standoff. Drop your gats! Nobody does. Brad steps out. Hold dup, y'all. Before anybody ices anybody got to say something. No one stops him, so Brad turns to his dad. You really weren't gonna pay my ransom? didn't know anything about that. You've got to believe me, that was not part of the plan. What was the plan? Send me down here to scare me white? It was stupid, know. thought I'd tried everything... just didn't know how to deal with you anymore. You've never known how to deal with me 'cause you don't know me, and you never cared to find out. And now that your election's on the line, that's when you take a stand? That's bullshit, Pops. Look at me, 'cause this is who am, and if you can't accept that, then I'll walk out that door, never see your sorry-ass again. Shondra, Tec, all the I-9's and Brad's posse slowly turn from Brad to Bill, completely caught in the moment, waiting for his response. I'm not proud of myself, Brad. made a lot of mistakes, and know wasn't there for you, and can't change that, but always loved you and still do... ... and if you say this is really who you are, then believe you and accept you, and from here on in, promise to be a real father to you. Talk is cheap, Pops. Prove it. I'm here, ain't Brad looks at him. Bill looks back. Everyone looks on, riveted. A'ight, Pops, we cool. Much love. They pound. getting emotional. couple sniffle, a few wipe their eyes. (sincere) Wish could talk to my pops like that. (emotional) No doubt. He's raising his kid. (dialing his cell, wiping tears) I'ma call my pops right now. Would y'all get a hold of your fool selves?! It's time to waste these punks! The I-9s straighten up and re-aim their guns. (with confidence) Tec, before we all go out in a blaze of glory, can say one last thing? (sighs) Whatchya got to say? Moch, kick it freestyle. Mocha rests the musket in the crook of his arm, and does his human beat box thing as Brad begins to rap. 'What's up with all this fightin'? We all should be unitin'! Y'all egos need deflatin', Gangstas, please, quit all this hatin'.' Stop, please! If hear you drop one more rhyme, I'ma hafta smoke myself. A'ight, cool, but all these gats got to go! As Brad grabs the missile launcher from Hadji... (moved, earnest) Word up, All this hatin' is wack! Mocha slams the butt of the musket down, and the flintlock slams forward. Everyone cringes. Nothing happens. Everyone looks at the then suddenly it and a rusty musket ball slamming Monster in the middle of her Kevlar breastplate. She flies back and slams into the wall, causing her spear gun to fire -- a and lands directly into Brad's left ass cheek. Brad howls and drops the everyone watches it fall to the ground... it hits the floor and the Brad... Tec... Bill... and Shondra all watch in horror as the missile flies past gang members, through the kitchen door, and slams into the side of the gas oven. We hear a countdown Ruuuuuuunnnnn! Everyone runs for the nearest hole in the wall. Bodies stream out of the house scrambling for safety when suddenly... The in a huge orange We emergency vehicles parked in front of smoldering remains of Tec's house, then Tec, who is yelling at a cop. know my rights, man, and these fools drove two damn cars into my house, then they blew the shit up! This all better be rebuilt before my ma comes back, or she will make you wish you were never born. a speaking have two witnesses who were at the scene of the explosion... She turns and the to include Sean and their clothes are singed and still smoking. Can you tell us what happened? It was hard core, yo. All these crazy busters was strapped to the nines, and was like, keepin' the peace, telling the brothers to talk it out, find their common bond... Sean steps in front of speaking directly (going for the Oscar) See, the explosion was just a metaphor for the anger we oppressed young men of color have buried deep inside our hearts... hearts turned dark -- (confused) Okay, thank you, Bloodbath and Tree. (turns And all of this mayhem is rumored to have been caused by the mysterious White Kong, who remains at large. This is Soon Yi Baxter- Hernandez, reporting from South Central. (speaking normally) When's this gonna air? Can get a copy of this? need it for my reel. She glares and they move off... We Brad and Shondra by an ambulance, talking as a paramedic bandages Brad's ass. Aaah!!! You alright? I'm cool... still a little confused maybe. I'm still not exactly sure what was for real and what wasn't. Well, as far as being real, can only vouch for two things. She kisses him full on the lips. can deal with a little more of that reality. They kiss again, then Brad breaks it. Wait a minute. You said two things was real. What was the other? Shondra smiles as we... What up, Shondra? It's an incredibly foofy Baroque nightmare. Damn, you knew Big Boy the whole time? told you we go way back. So Shondra tells me you drop rhyme. Peep dis. He hands over a Mali-Bootay Once you hear my demo, you're gonna want to give me Eminem play, dawg! (taking the can't wait, y'all. Peace. Big Boy pounds Brad and they exit. Big Boy hands the to a British butler, who puts it in the system. Big Boy puts on the headphones and the butler hits play. Big Boy listens for a minute, then smiles. know exactly what to do with this. Big Boy stands there in his bathrobe. Pull! Brad's flies into the sky like a skeet clay pigeon. Big Boy raises a and it to kingdom come. Brad and Shondra stand off to the side of a huge rally. Damn. Twenty thousand people, all here to support my pops. He must have charisma. Like father like son. Shondra, girl. just have to thank you. For what? You the only one who accepted me for who really am. (beat) You also car jacked me, kidnapped me and tried to turn me white, but I'm gonna let that go. They kiss, tongues and all as Bill walks up. Hey, kids... Sorry to interrupt. (turning) What up? Well, I'm about to go on and, Brad... want you to be part of this. You mean, be onstage with you? need you to help me get the urban vote. Introduce me. Dang, I'd be honored. And, son, don't say it... (beat) Rap it. (blown away) For real, Pops? For real, son, for rizzeal. Shondra looks on proudly as -- heavy on emotional strings, swells, driving the movie audience to feel as good as they've ever felt in a movie. Brad takes the stage. Hey, y'all! I'm here to introduce you to my father, Bill Gluckman! The big Gluck!! rap beat kicks in as Brad goes all out. We all gather here on this special occasion. To listen to my pops, he's your west coast liaison. speech from him, dude, is like sex with a hoochi. It's hot and excitin', like shoppin' at Gucci! Asians, Jews, Mexicans, too. Everybody's votin', yo, it's a cultural stew. Once he's in office you'll experience great riches. As a thank you for helpin', you can get wit my bitches! Let's get Glucked! Y'all get Glucked! We get Glucked! Come on everybody put your hands up! Bill moves onstage and attempts to dance hip hop style. Immigration, education, and runaway inflation. It got me so stressed need to start masturbatin'. California ain't flowin' like some ol' constipation. Vote for dad or I'll bash your frickin' face in! Come on everybody put your hands up! And if my dad wins this election, he'll grow on y'all like a Yeeah! We all need a Gluckin'! Let's all get Glucked! Brad raises Bill's hand up in victory and we Brad did deliver the urban vote... to Bill's opponent. Bill Gluckman lost the election by a landslide. Sean and landed jobs more suitable to their talents... We to reveal Sean and in uniform and working at: We Sean and wait on a Welcome to Wienie In Bun. How about a Double Dog? Tom leans in, with a "Manager" nametag, whispering angrily: Push the Mega Meal, or you punks are so fired. sitting at their usual table, in mid-argument. Mocha, Hadji and Monster continued to do nothing whatsoever, except for order coffee and argue... Tec sued Bill Gluckman, and was awarded 100 thousand dollars for damage to his house, and another thirty million for emotional distress. Tec moved... to reveal Tec leaving his driveway in a Bentley. What up, neighbor? Bill, in his Hummer, leaving his driveway. He waves grumpily as we... While waiting for his rap career to kick in, Brad invested his trust fund into a business that made sense. We a sign that reads: to reveal a crowd of Malibu women gathered around Brad and Shondra as Shondra cuts a ribbon with a huge pair of scissors; the women rush inside. helped Shondra open up her salon right here in the 'Bu. Shondra puts the finishing touches to a woman in a chair. She styled up all the ladies in Malibu so they were stone-cold ghetto fabulous. Shondra spins the chair to with a crazy ghetto hairstyle. She looks like Busta Rhymes. She checks herself in the mirror. love it. (alternate) Boo-ya! She smiles revealing a with a in it. L.A.'s own, Hal Fishman reports. It's official. Bill Gluckman is California's next governor. We have a live report from the celebration at Gluckman headquarters... the news monitor over Hal Fishman's shoulder, to... as Bill takes the mic (As he speaks, we gradually revealing the people next to him on stage). This is a monumental day for our glorious state and there are several people need to thank here tonight... (beat) There's the International Brotherhood of Police Officers... as salute Bill. The Southern California Rotary Club... table full of well-dressed wave politely. And our friends at the Environmental Defense Fund... group of granola-type smile. Brad causing Bill to look at him. Brad gives Bill a "reminder" nod... Oh, and of course... We're actually in the (matter of factly) ... all the Bitches and Ho's... pod of snap their fingers in Bill's direction. The Pimps... The Hoodrats... The lavishly-dressed raise their canes to Bill. The Association of Korean Grocers. An give Bill the "thumbs-up." The Playas. The Ballers. The Shot Callers. And a special shout out to the I-9's. and his gang. They wear dark suits and do rags. And... The Women's Organization of California. table full of prim golf-clap and smile. And most of all, I'd like to thank my campaign advisor on urban affairs, and my son, B-rad as Brad grabs the mic at the podium. West Coast Reprezzizzin'! Bill and Brad hug. and the entire Ballroom turns into one huge dance party. Bill raises the roof as he meanders into the celebrating crowd. People of all different races and backgrounds dance together, all having a blast... Hadji grinds on an CONSTITUENT's ass... she's into it. I'm totally taxing your ass. Bess compares her diamond ring to Tec's Bling-Bling. You get that from Tiffany? think that was the Bitches' name, yeah... They continue to marvel at each other's decorative accessories... We see Sean and are caterers, wearing "Wiener on a Bun" outfits/hats and circulating among the guests. They approach a well-to-do Would you care for a wiener? Courtesy of Wiener on a Bun. Or perhaps can interest you in a head shot? I'm trained in jazz dance, tap, and can do a Southern accent. Tom enters wearing a "Wiener on a Bun" manager's outfit. Idiots. What did tell you about bothering the guests? Now move it, those wieners aren't serving themselves. He pushes them out of there. Yo, yo, yo... Everyone turns to see Brad still at the podium. Confusion... Last time was here, y'all threw my ass out. But now that haves yo attention, gots somethin' gotta say... And have to do it the only way know how... Kick it, Moch. as Brad pulls the mic out of the stand and begins prowling around the stage. Rap can be shortened.) Panic, as everyone realizes Brad is about to rap... wrote this one just for you, Dad. (starts to rap) Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah... Yeah... (stops) I'm sorry, lost my place again. (remembers) Oh, here we go... Election, erection, got an infection. My pops, he won, Defying all the pre-dections... Sean and (waiters) drop their serving trays; Tec and the I-9's dive for Brad at the podium; Shondra screams, Brad is grabbed and thrown off the stage by the I-9's and is projected out over the audience, where we... Brad's terrified face. (cocky as ever) What can say, ain't nothing but a thang... and Brad falls to the ground. After months of searching the Southland for notorious criminal White Kong, the has finally made an arrest. The suspect, a black man, was caught earlier today... Footage of a being put in a squad car. 'White Kong'? Damn! I'm not even white. That's what they all say. (alternate:) Shut up, White Kong. Malibu's Most Wanted : Fax Bahr Adam Small Jamie Kennedy Nick