Written by Chandor July 12, 2010 The frame is filled with the face of a 27- year-old risk assessment analyst. He has a Doctorate from and is staring intently into a large bank of computer screens. An elevator door opens and come out of the elevator carrying large file boxes. They walk down a long glass enclosed hallway that runs the full length of the trading floor. The scope of the floor now comes into frame. There are more computers than can be imagined and several large boards on the far walls that are scrolling thousands of numbers. gives a knowing glance to the guy sitting next to him, a young analyst in his early twenties. Is that them? (nods yes) Jesus Christ. The people turn and separate into a large glass walled conference room that runs along the floor as almost every person on the floor watches. (cont'd) Are they going to do it right there? Yeah. Fuck me. sitting next to them, leans back in his chair. (whispered) Have you guys ever seen this before? No. Best to just ignore it. Keep your head down and get back to work... and don't watch. The people begin walking out onto the floor looking at a piece of paper in their hand then walking up behind a person and asking their name. It is brutal. The camera follows one woman, with her piece of paper down the hall and into a row of employees, she walks right past the then stops a bit down from them. Timothy Singh? Yes. I'm afraid we have to speak with you. gets up and walks back towards the conference room with the woman. puts on his headphones and very loud drowns out all other noise and tries to get lost back into the numbers on his computer screen. The sequence follows the people walking around and firing people intercut with just staring at his computer screen. It runs for almost the length of the song until finally the same woman comes walking back down the hall and stops behind and taps him on the shoulder. He takes off his headphones and the He is shell-shocked. (cont'd) Eric Dale? Excuse me? Eric Dale? No. Sorry? I'm not Eric Dale. Oh. I'm so sorry. He's my boss, he's down that hall. is sitting at his desk, he is 52 years old and looks exhausted. He looks out through the glass of his office as she walks over to the door. Mr. Dale? Yes. This way. walks out the door first. They walk along the full length of the trading floor to reach one of the conference rooms. Everyone left on the floor is watching. There is a more senior looking Human Resources lawyer, already sitting at the table. They all sit and look at each other for a beat. Well... Mr. Dale I'm obviously sorry that we are here today but these are extra ordinary times as you very well must know. run risk management... it just doesn't seem like a natural place to start cutting. hope you understand that this is in no way personal. majority of this floor is being let go today. Mr. Dale. Ms. Bratberg is now going to run through the details of what the firm is offering. slides across the table a very thick severance contract agreement. Mr. Dale the firm is offering you six months severance at half your salary. You will keep all unvested options that you currently hold. Health will be extended through that period. You have till tomorrow at... She looks at her watch. (cont'd) 4:47 to either take the offer or it will be revoked. Do you understand? Yes. Now, unfortunately Mr. Dale due to the highly sensitive nature of your work here the firm has to take certain precautions for security purposes that may seem punitive in nature. hope considering your... looks down at the piece of paper in front of her to fact check. (cont'd) ...over 19 years of service to the firm, you will understand that these measures are in no way a reflection of the firms' feelings towards your performance or your character. I'm sorry?? She's apologizing for what's about to happen. Your company email, access to the server, access to the building, and your mobile data and phone service will all be severed as of this meeting. This gentleman... She points behind him and a smallish benign looking is standing in the doorway. (cont'd) will take you to your office so that you can clear out your personal belongings. What about my current ongoing work? I'm right in the... The firm has worked out its transition plan and is prepared to move forward, but we appreciate your concern. We understand that this is very difficult and here is my card. Please contact me over the next few weeks if there is anything that can do to help you through this transition in your life. They all stare at each other in silence for several long awkward beats. Sir? finally stands up and walks out with the guard and back over to his office. walks into the office and sits at his desk and begins to clear his things out into a file box. The guard stands at the door. Eventually sympathetic yet still energetic immediate superior, comes to the door. Hey. Will. I'm very sorry. Are you still alive? For now. Congratulations. It's a total bloodbath. heard. If there was anything coulda done, you know woulda done it. know. Well... One more thing... Who was it? Eric... Was it Rogers? You know me. I'm not gonna say... Robertson? just looks back at him in silence. (cont'd) That cunt. knew it. never should have gone to her last year. Look it wasn't anyone. It's just bad luck. Right....? Yeah. Good luck. They look at each other with respect but do not shake hands as starts to leave the office. Will? Yeah. You know was just in the middle of a bunch of shit here that someone should really take a look at. Eric, they are telling us that everyone has got to get out of here and leave everything behind. While we appreciate your concern, this is not your problem anymore. Alright? Good luck. looks straight ahead as leaves the office. He packs up the last of his things, which does not take long, then stands and gets ready to walk out. He looks around and heads out into the cubicle area. Outside his office and are standing to say goodbye. Eric, am very sorry. Yeah. Did they say what was going to happen with us? Jesus Seth. What? No, it will be ugly around here for a while but you guys will be fine... Well, take care, Eric. Seth exits. Well, I'll be seeing you around. turns and begins to walk out towards the elevator. walks out behind him. both stand there in silence waiting for the elevator, then. just wanted to say thank you. That's not necessary. Well it is... You were the person around here that looks at him and understands. turns around and begins to walk back toward his desk. know. turns back and reaches into one of his boxes and takes out a small key chain portable hard drive and hands it to (cont'd) was close to something here... But they wouldn't let me finish it. Take a look. The elevator doors open and gets into the elevator. Just as the doors are closing he says... (cont'd) Be careful. The doors close. a 57 year old executive, is sitting behind his desk looking out the window. gently knocks on the door, enters then sits on the couch. Well, that was fucking hideous. It's gonna get worse before it gets better. Really? Much. Got any nicorettes? I'm out of nicorettes, which means I'm gonna kill someone in about 10 minutes... You alright? My dog is dying. I'm sorry? Just spoke to the vet, it's some fucking tumor on her liver. I'm paying almost a thousand bucks a day to keep her alive. Really? Yeah... and don't have a clue what to do about it. They both sit in silence and look out the window. Well they're all gone. How many do we have left? Thirty-three. Make sure everyone is out there, need to say something. They are ready for you. leaves in his office. looks as if he may not move, then snaps out of it. walks out of his office and stands in front of the trading floor that just an hour before had seated 130 people. Now just thirty-three are scattered throughout the vast mostly empty space. They all look up in silence at him. Long pause, then face begins to glow a bit. His posture straightens, he fills up. He speaks slowly at first then builds. You are all still here for a reason... Most of this floor was just sent home... forever. We have spent the last hour saying good-bye... they were good people and they were good at their jobs... but you all were better. Now they are gone. They are not to be thought of again. This is your opportunity. On every floor of this building and in every office from Hong Kong to London the same thing is happening. Before this is all done 3 of every ten guys who were standing between you and your boss's job are now gone. That is your opportunity. I've been at this place for thirty-four years and let me tell you that this will not be the last time you go through this. But you all are survivors... And that is how this firm over 107 years has always continued to grow stronger. So hold your heads high... and get back to work. He looks out at them then turns and heads back into his office and closes the door. falls into the couch and looks forward in a deflated daze. His eyes no longer believe what he says. walks out the front door carrying the file boxes. There are other people streaming out the door doing the same thing. stops, turns, and looks up at the building then tries to make a phone call but his phone does not work as it has been shut off by the firm. He looks up to the sky and can't believe his fate. As he looks down he sees a woman, serious, classically beautiful and dressed in a well tailored power suit with her head down walking into the building. He can't help himself. Robertson! does not respond. (cont'd) Sarah Robertson! This time she looks up. When she sees him she debates if she should stop. She does. He slowly moves a little closer to her, still carrying the slightly tattered box with his personal belongings in it. (cont'd) You shut off my phone??? Eric... didn't do anything. They stare at each other. Fuck you. They look at each other for a longer beat, both a little shocked that was so openly confrontational. She turns and heads back inside quickly. drops the phone to the ground and walks away. Most of the remaining traders are packing up and getting ready to go home or out for the night. is sitting at his desk holding the portable hard drive. is getting ready to leave behind him. stares down at the drive in his hand trying to decide whether to proceed. You ok? Yeah. Just a little freaked out. You want to get a drink? Nah, need to clean up a few things around here. Everyone is going out... come on. Nah, I'm fine. Well, give me a call if you change your mind. will. Come on. Where are you going? The Grand. I'll call you when I'm done. Be glad, you're still alive. am. walks out and puts on his headphones, the kicks in again. He picks up the portable hard drive, looks around and sees no one, then inserts it into his computer. He has four large screens in front of him and as he begins opening window upon window of mathematical models his face begins to soften and he gets into his comfort zone. The frame is filled with the extremely complex programs and numbers flying by. is sitting next to the exam table, his dog is on the table lying down very sedated. They both stare forward. In a locked off shot and are sitting on a couch staring forward. Figures cross frame and occasionally another banker in the group stops to refill his drink with one of the three bottles in ice buckets on the table in front of them. They are celebrating, but it seems a little forced. is still working on the numbers, although his face starts to carry a more serious look. He is now wearing glasses and the numbers on the screen are reflected in them. The numbers finally stop moving on the screen and then he takes his glasses off and rubs his eyes. is still sitting next to his dog on the exam table. is still in front of his computer, he puts his glasses back on, looks at the screen then quickly picks up the phone and dials. (to himself as he dials) Come on, come on. The number you have called has been disconnected and is no longer in service. Fuck. hangs up the phone. He looks back at the screen. Then picks up the phone again and dials. Hello. can't hear you. What. Go outside, can't hear you. Wait... Give me a sec... Where are you? Lugo. Are you with Will? Emerson? Yes. think he's still here. Why? You have to go get him, and get back up here. Where? The office. What! I'm serious. You want me to get our boss's boss out of a club and bring him back to the office at 10:00 on a Thursday night? Our boss just got axed, so technically he is our boss, and yes. Why? Just do it Seth. Alright, we'll be there in ten. and walk through the door and into the empty main trading floor. The lights are down and there is a cleaning person vacuuming in the far background. They walk over to desk. Hey, look who it is, burning the candle at both ends. There aren't anymore cuts planned though, so you can stop kissing my ass, honestly don't even understand what you guys do. Will, am so sorry to call you back but really think.. Don't worry about it. Hey. is a bit drunk but looks at face and realizes something is up. (cont'd) What's going on? Look at this. comes around and sits at desk. (cont'd) Eric gave me this file before he left. Eric? Dale. And he told me he couldn't quite figure it out, then the last thing he says as the doors on the elevator close is `be careful'. Be careful? So I'm obviously a little curious. So get into it a bit and realize that all he was missing was...well it's not good. looks at the screen and starts to scroll through the pages. What is he doing here? Go to model four, and it makes more sense. Oh. is now paying closer attention, standing over their shoulder. What is this? This is basically everything that we have on our books at any given time. But what Eric was trying to do here is work it for levels of volatility that fall outside the limits of our standard model. What are those levels. Well it's a fairly complicated... Simplify. The volatility boundaries are basically set using historic patterns then stretching them out another 10-15%... roughly. So what's happening? We are starting to test those historic patterns. When? starts scrolling back through the last couple weeks on his screen Today. Tuesday. Monday, last Friday, last Wednesday and Monday. Two Fridays ago. get it. scrolls the final page on the graph. Fuck me... Once this thing gets going in the wrong direction... Yeah... It's huge. How huge? The losses are greater than the current value of the company...? Projected losses... projected... Fuck me. Yeah. Wait, and this is just our floor? Yeah... They all look at each other long and hard. Where the fuck is Eric Dale? can't find him, they cut off his phone. What? starts off towards his office and is suddenly quite sober. and follow him. They turned off everyone's phone who they axed today. Fucking ruthless. And he's got no other cell? No. How does he not have his own cellphone? tried, it's been turned off. think have his home number. You're going to call his house? Yes... Do we even know if he's right? looks at and standing in front of his desk. It seems pretty fucking right to me. It does. The phone starts ringing. We never see Mrs. Dale but we can just make out her responses through the receiver. Hello, Mrs. Dale?... This is Will Emerson calling... I'm fine, thanks. was wondering if Eric was there?... Yes, we tried but his cell doesn't seem to be working... (cont'd) Ok, could you have him call me the moment he gets home, the moment he arrives? Thank you very much. Will hangs up the phone. (cont'd) Where the fuck is he? Doesn't he have like three kids? So? I'm just saying, would you go home? know where he is. You two need to go get him. Now? Yes. Will writes the address on a piece of paper. Hands it to them. (cont'd) There will be a car waiting for you downstairs. Get him back here. What are you going to do? I'm calling Sam. Fuck me. Go. is driving in his car home from the vet trying to stay awake when his Blackberry starts ringing next to him. He looks down at it, then out to the road, then decides to answer. It's 11:00 at night? know I'm sorry. wouldn't have called... What's the problem? think you need to get down here. What? Sam... It's 11:00 o'clock. am well aware of the fucking time, Sam. But you need to see this. See what? Well... Email it to me. don't think that is a good idea. last words hang in the air. I'm on my way. and sit in the back of the plush car as it struggles through traffic up town. reaches into his bag and pulls out a large beer in a black paper bag. Their conversation is quiet, as if they are afraid someone might be listening. You want one? No. gives him a bit of a look. What, we got them on our way to meet you at the office... we didn't know what the fuck you wanted to talk about... (almost to himself) ... thought you might've gotten some chick pregnant or something. haven't gotten laid in so long that's not possible at this point. guess that's true. looks out the window at all the people on the street enjoying the Thursday night. Look at these people. What? We are in here stressing our fucking heads off that the world as we know it is ending, and they've got no idea what's coming. demeanor sitting and drinking a beer doesn't seem to project much in the way of stress. (cont'd) Right? try not to let work get to me. I've noticed that about you actually. Look, we are twenty three years old... Twenty-Seven. Whatever, same thing, made almost a quarter of a million dollars last year... for what... pushing some numbers around on a computer screen, so a bunch of glorified crack addicts could take that information and pretend to understand it, and then make a bet against some other jock half way around the world who if he wasn't doing this would probably be in some somewhere putting it all on number seven. And at the end of the day one guy loses and the other guy wins. continues to look out the window in silence for a long beat. Then with a little sly humor and a smile to You do know it's a little more complicated than that? phone starts playing a ring tone. He looks down at the text. It's Will... He wants to know if we've found him? What do tell him. Tell him that we haven't found him. comes through the door from the elevator looking quite disheveled and walks across the long and empty trading floor. He looks around, then heads over to office where the light is on. lightly knocks on the glass. Hey. Hey. looks at for some hint of what is going on, then eventually puts his coat down and sits into a chair. They wait for who goes first. So? Eric Dale... Oh Jesus... Before he was escorted out of the building by security... had nothing to do with that. know. I'm sorry, go on. So as he was leaving the building he hands a disk to Peter Sullivan... Who's Peter Sullivan again? One of Eric's guys. Right. ...and tells him that he was almost on to something but hasn't been able to figure it out. So he gives him the disk and says give it a try... but the last thing he says as the doors to the elevator close is `be careful'... Be careful? Yeah. Be careful? Yes. Why? Well... take a look. Speak, you know can't read those fucking things they put together. Basically the kid dives right into the thing after your little pep talk, nice job by the way, and he seems to have nailed it. Nailed it? The kid figured out what Eric was missing. And... And? gives him a long pause. ...it isn't good. look gets up and he comes over to stand behind at his desk and look at the computer. (cont'd) As far as can tell these here are the historical volatility index limits... which guess our whole fucking trading model relies on pretty heavily... and we are so fucking levered up that if this thing starts getting outside those limits it gets ugly in a hurry. How ugly? Real ugly. And how close to those limits have we gotten? Oh we're beyond close... We broke through five or six days over the last two weeks, but we've managed to stay on the upside of it... for now... For now? Well look what happens here when we get on the wrong side of it. What am looking at? takes his finger and points at a red number with a whole lot of zeroes after it. look says it all. And that wouldn't even be that bad a day for us... historically speaking. Is this right? don't know. Where is Eric? We shut his phone off. Of course we did. And he hasn't come home yet, spoke to his wife. He's probably crying in a fucking beer somewhere. Or worse. Where's the kid who did this? Out looking for Eric. Do we think he knows what he's doing? don't know. What do know? Well get him back here. and are sitting at the bar each with a drink facing camera. There are women dancing in the background and one dancing in front of them, and look up occasionally. What now? We should probably tell Will he's not here. Yeah. They both just continue to look forward and sip their drinks. What do you think this girl makes in a night? Seth. keeps looking forward. (cont'd) 2000? Fuck. That's.... All things considered, that's not bad. Eventually phone starts to ring. He picks it up. (cont'd) Will?... No, no, we asked and no one's seen him. They exchange a look and slam their drinks. This time they are really stuck in traffic, the car is not moving at all. Eventually the car starts moving, and phone starts buzzing with a text again. He's freaking out. We need to get down there. They look out into the city. Finally reaches into his bag and takes out the forty in the paper bag and starts drinking the beer again. He takes a big sip. (cont'd) What'a you think Rogers makes in a year? Long pause. have no idea? Come on, play along. don't know what year? Last year. Three quarters of a million bucks? Come on. What? Not even close. More? Yes. million? Will Emerson made two and half million bucks last year. Fuck you. looks at him showing he is serious. (cont'd) Fuck you! He did. How do you know that? He told me. He just told you that? Well asked him. Do you think that's true. Probably. That's fucked up. Why? Does that seem right to you? Right? Jesus. So what do you think that means Rogers puts away? have no idea. They both just look straight forward, takes a big gulp of the beer. (cont'd) This fucking traffic. We should have taken a the subway. The doors of the elevator open and and look up as and are standing in front of them about to get onto the elevator. and are now dressed with fresh shirts, ties, and suits and look as if they are ready to start a new day even though it is almost one in the morning. is still holding the forty in the paper bag. Will looks at it. They share a glancing smile. and step into the elevator keeping the guys in it. Gentlemen? You're coming with us. Will. Mr. Rogers. Sam this is Seth Bregman and this is Peter Sullivan. Sir. Guys. They all stand in silence as the elevator heads up until: Will? Yes? Where are we going? Going to get a second opinion on your work Peter. and look at each other, growing more concerned. The doors open and they exit. looks for somewhere to throw out his beer but can't find a trash can. They follow and down a long hallway that is crowded with assistant cubicles. Eventually they turn into a small conference room that has no windows. It is claustrophobic. There are four people sitting at the table. They stand. Everyone says their somber hellos and shakes hands. Slight hellos, etc. They all sit down and at each place setting there is a pad of paper, a pencil, and an empty binder. Sitting at the head of the table is He is a blond boyish looking 43 year old, although carries himself with intense confidence. He is the head of all fixed income securities, and oversees roughly 25,000 employees. Next to him is his chief risk management officer, the same woman from outside the building earlier who had the run in with Next to her is her right hand man a sixty year old number cruncher and next to him is a firm lawyer. They are all dressed sharply for a new day. Long silence. look down at him. So Sam, what do you have for us? Well... it should be here in a minute. Finding someone in the copy room at this hour was a little bit of a challenge. Well why don't we start by introducing everyone then. This is Sarah Robertson who you know, our chief risk management officer, Ramesh Shah from upstairs, and David Horn one of the firm's in house counsel. Nice to meet you all. This is Will Emerson my head of trading, and this is... Peter Sullivan, and Seth Bregman. They work in our risk department. Where is Eric Dale? He was let go today. looks at as it would have been her call to let go, she nods yes. So who's left in your risk department? As of today that would be Peter and our junior analyst Seth...? Everyone looks down the table at and Their inexperience glares back. Really? looks back at then the room goes silent again. Finally a knocks on the door. Will Emerson? Here. Please just give one to everyone, thanks. The hands out the packets to everyone in the room. So apparently Eric had been working on this for some time but was unable to finish it, as he was leaving the building today he gave the program to Peter here, and told him to see what he thought. Peter figured a few things out that Eric seemed to be missing and this is what came out. Where is Eric Dale now? He's been unreachable since he left the office. and the others open up the printout in front of them and start reviewing. and just sit in awkward silence staring at the other side of the table as they all read. This goes on for a full very long minute. Finally: Peter this is your work? Mainly Mr. Dale's... But this draft is yours? Yes. Again, derived from Mr. Dale's original model. But yes. And what is your background? Background? Your have been with the firm for two years working with Eric that whole time... But hold a doctorate in engineering, specialist in propulsion, from with a Bachelors from Penn. What's a specialty in propulsion? Well... in laymen terms my thesis was a study in the way that friction ratios effect steering outcomes in aeronautical use under reduced gravity loads. Long silence. So you are a rocket scientist? The whole table looks over at Peter with some awe. Um... was... yes. How did you end up here? Well it's all just numbers really, you're just changing what you're adding up... and if may speak freely the money is considerably more attractive here. looks down again at the numbers in front of him and his tone suddenly switches to serious, testy even. What time is it? It's 2:15. and just look at each other in silence for a bit. What do you have in exposure right now, tonight? don't know... between 900 and 1.3... roughly. If Mr. Sullivan's numbers are correct... looks down at the sheet in front of him to go through the numbers and takes a beat too long. 1.215 Trillion. checks his number. Yes. Fuck me... fuck me... And I'm guessing by the fact that you two haven't said anything that the math checks out? looks over at and then looks to She looks back. Look we'd need a little more time to go over this, but Mr. Sullivan here seems to know what he's doing. And don't have to tell you that this is a problem. Thank you for that. What time is it? Fuck me! Jared stands up and walks around the small room. The rest of the room goes silent. Finally: (cont'd) Sam how long under normal operations would it take your people to clear that from our books? What? The 1.2 trillion. All of it? Yes. don't know, a couple weeks? Weeks? Yes. But as you certainly know our business is selling buying. It doesn't work for very long without both components. If we suddenly stop buying for a day or two that just doesn't hide under the rug, it gets out and this whole this thing comes to a end... and right quick. understand. Do you? How many traders do we have left between your floor and Petersen's? don't know, sixty. has been looking down at the numbers while this conversation has been taking place. Jared I've just been looking here a little closer, and it's these numbers that are really setting this thing off. holds up a hand to interrupt Ramesh. Jared nods his head, his eyes are perfectly still but his brain is racing. Excuse me, need to make a quick call. calmly stands up and steps out of the room for a long moment. The room stays completely quiet the whole time he is gone. We hear nothing. It is awkward to say the least. He comes back in and sits down without missing a beat. (cont'd) Please... was just saying, and just speaking completely off the record here, it won't be long before someone else starts putting these in and sees the exact same thing we are looking at here. If they haven't already. Pause. Understood... And Sarah, what value would you allow to be placed on those assets that might be left on the books, if they had to be? Why would they still be on the books? Because suddenly no one wants to buy them. Oh fuck you Sam... give me a fucking break, all at once? Without an active market, it could take weeks, months for me to value them correctly. You'd have to go block by block. It's a very simple business Jared. You and talked about this last year... turns around suddenly and cuts him off. Sam.... Will, Peter, and..?? Seth. Seth, Could you please excuse us for a few minutes. They stand up and start to exit the room. (cont'd) Oh and Peter? Who else has seen this? thinks that through. No one... besides us here. And Mr. Dale. Yes. And can it really be that we don't know where Eric Dale is? I'm afraid so. His wife tells us he hasn't come home yet...and the firm shut off his phone today. Perfect. Well, need to know where he is. and leave the room and close the door behind them. They cross the hallway and sit on a bench staring out the window. They talk very quietly. Jesus fucking Christ! Who is that guy? He's Sam's boss. He looks like he's fifteen years old. How old is he? He's like forty. How does that happen? Oh it happens all the time. Except to me. Kid's a fucking killer. What are they talking about? It ain't pretty. What ain't pretty? If people suddenly stop buying the shit we're selling.... They all look out the window. Long pause. (cont'd) You guys smoke? Well, you should. Jared you can't do what you are thinking about doing. What if we don't have a choice? What does that mean? Fuck you... you don't have a choice. Fuck me? Have you looked at these numbers Sam?? Yes, but what the hell do know. comes back over to the table and picks up the packet. Well, Mr. Shah tell me if I'm wrong but to me these numbers don't add up. If may I'd like to take some time before we... Jared we can't answer that yet. Are you fucking kidding me... this is exactly what we've... now cuts him off abruptly. We need a little time before we can give you our conclusion. closes the issue off with another look to We meet in 45 minutes. Sam, do you have this file? Yes, here it is. slides him the hard drive across the table, they all take a second to follow it. And Sam we need Eric Dale, it's making me very uneasy knowing he is out there right now wanting to put a knife in our backs while he's not even aware he's holding the knife in his hand. and leave the room as is left alone with What are you going to do? Not sure. Are you going to call him? They both look at each other for a long beat. Finally. already did. puts his hand on shoulder briefly. They part. They walk over towards the edge. It is a very clear night. Jesus. Wow. Yeah. Shit, that's a long way down. Yeah, it is. They sit down on a girder, then light up. look and tone becomes a little darker as they all stare out into the night. Long Pause. and wait for the elevator alone in silence. The doors finally open and they get in. Still not a word. Finally. Is this really where you want to be taking this at this point? I'm sorry? We don't even know if he's right. How long should this take you to confirm? Not long. Silence except for the ding as it comes to the floor and the doors open. They part. are all still smoking and looking out over the city. Finally stands up and goes over to the edge and looks over. He jumps up and sits on the edge. Careful. Jesus man. Did you know the fear most people feel when they stand on the edge like this is not actually a fear that they will fall but instead it's the subconscious fearing that they might jump? ....It's a fear of losing faith. Well that's a little deep and depressing, thank you. Yeah well, can get a little dark sometimes. Will, come on. Get down. jumps down and comes back over to sit down. They stare out again. Not today! (beat) So it looks like they are gonna have us dump this shit. What? Yeah, you watch. How? trillion bucks?? I'm just saying. How would they even do that? You can't... it's impossible. But they'll figure out a way. I've been at this place for ten years and I've seen some things that you wouldn't believe... and when all is said and done... they don't lose money. They don't care if everyone else does, but they won't. Long silence. Will? Yeah? Did you really make two and half million bucks last year? Yeah... did. What do you do with all that money? don't know really. It goes pretty quick. You learn to spend what's in your pocket. Two and a half million goes quickly? Well the tax man takes half of it up front. So now you got what... million and a quarter. Mortgage grabs another gave 150 to my parents to live off, so now you got what?? Eight hundred. bought a car last year for 150. Probably another 100 eating... 25 on clothes, put 400 away for a rainy day... Smart. (smiles) And what's that? 125 left. takes a long drag off his cigarette. spent 76,520 dollars on booze, dancers, and whores. Yeah, kinda shocked me, although was able to write most of it off, as entertainment. With that he flicks his cigarette over the edge of the building just as a massive comes sweeping up from behind the building and comes right over their heads. are now above the rotor noise. Whoa! Whoa! (cont'd) What time is it? Oh, here they go. They are bringing in the cavalry! We better get down there. and are sitting in the office silently looking out the window. The office is very large and has a full sitting area with two couches. is intensely going over the papers in front of him. is just looking out the window. How old are you? Jesus... stops reading with a deeply aware look and just stares out the window as well. This is a very... very bad dream. looks over at him directly. don't know, seems like we actually may have just finally woken up. comes to the door. sits up. Hello. Come in. How do we look? Her look says it all. (cont'd) should go. No, you should stay. So? (dead calm delivery) It's all legit... the kid killed it. The formula is worthless. They all look at each other as if they have seen a ghost. What do you mean? It's broken. There are eight trillion dollars of paper around the world relying on that equation?? We were wrong. You mean you were wrong. Don't even start.... This was discussed. I'm heading to the conference room. No. I'd like you to hear this. No... don't want to hear this. stares at them both. (cont'd) How do you think I've stuck around this place so long. He walks out of the room. and look each other over. I've called Tuld. Is there a contingency plan here? contingency plan? Yes. We went all in on this one. So we've got ourselves quite exposed here... haven't we? To Tuld or the market? Both. They both stare at each other. Jared's phone buzzes. He takes it out and his face says it all. (cont'd) He's here. His face says yes. Sarah walks out. Jared stands up and straightens his tie in the reflection of the window. He exits. Tracking shot of Sarah and Jared walking through cubicles. They cut through a short cut near the freight elevator. and are coming down the stairway from the roof. We were just grabbing a cigarette on the roof and a very spiffy looking helicopter dive-bombed us and then landed. know. Come with us. Where's Sam. don't know. Do you want all of us> Yes. ushers the whole group towards the conference room. All five walk in silence. Finally, Just one piece of advice to everyone here before we go in there... this could get a bit ugly but whatever you do... just... tell the truth... don't try to change a word of it, no sugar coating... no one here is smart enough... including the rocket scientist. He continues on. The guys are taken aback because standing right outside the opening elevator door is a very well dressed page and a female executive assistant who is also dressed perfectly for the day ahead. Mr. Cohen? Yes. This way. They are already in there waiting for you. They come through glass doors and enter a massive conference room with a commanding view of the city. It is filled with people along one side of the table. There are a team of five lawyers, three compliance officers, a couple of key board members, twelve in all. On the near side of the table sits surrounded by empty chairs all alone. The head of the table is empty. They all file in and sit down. They all sit in silence... waiting. Finally from a side door comes walking into the room. He is dressed in a average suit and tie, is not tall, late fifties and doesn't have a hair on his head. He carries himself without much exception. His eyes however tell a far different tale. Intense even at rest. He walks the length of the room, everyone half stands up. Please sit down. He then seats himself at the head of the table. Everyone in the room has the printout in front of them. is seated immediately to his left, then then and finally (cont'd) Welcome everyone. must apologize for dragging you all here at such an uncommon hour but from what I've been told this matter needs to be handled urgently, so urgently in fact that it probably should have been addressed weeks ago... (cont'd) but that is spilt milk under the bridge. So why doesn't someone please try to explain to me what's the problem here? Everyone looks around the room a bit and finally speaks up. Well, Mr. Tuld as mentioned earlier if you look here at the top page of this printout... He cuts him off. Jared, it's a little early for all that, how bout in English? ... Actually I'd like to hear from the guy who put this thing together... Mr. Sullivan is it? Does he speak English? Sir? I'd like to speak to the analyst who seems to have stumbled across this mess. Well, that's Peter Sullivan here. looks down the table to as does everyone else in the room. gives him a go ahead look. Sir. Ah, there he is. Yes sir. How old are you Mr. Sullivan? I'm twenty-seven sir. Please call me John. Yes sir. So Mr. Sullivan why don't you tell me what you think is going on here, and please speak as you might to a young child or a golden retriever, didn't get here on my brains can assure you of that. is very nervous. Well, sir. As guess you may or may not know work for Mr. Rogers here as an associate in the risk assessment and management office at Now you lost me at Sorry... was joking Mr. Sullivan. Yes... Well as you probably know over the last 36-40 months the firm has begun packaging new products that combine several different traunches of rating classification in one tradable security. This has been very profitable as imagine you noticed. have. Well the firm is currently doing a considerable amount of this business every day. The problem, which is guess why we are here tonight, is that it takes us... the firm... almost a month to layer these products correctly thereby posing a challenge from a risk management standpoint. And Mr. Sullivan that challenge is? We have to hold these assets on our books longer than we might ideally like to. Yes. But the key factor is these are essentially just mortgages, so that has allowed us to push the leverage considerably beyond what you might be willing, or allowed to do in any other circumstance, thereby pushing the risk profile without raising any red flags. And how far have we pushed that profile tonight Mr. Sullivan? We have pushed it to 1.215 Trillion dollars... at alone. Give or take. Give or take. Now Mr. Sullivan what am guessing, and give me a little rope here, what am guessing that your report here says is that considering the, shall we say bumpy road, we've been on the last week or so that the numbers that your brilliant co- workers up the line ahead of you had come up with in the past don't seem to make much sense anymore considering what's taking place today? Actually not taking place today but what's already taken place over the last two weeks. So what you're saying is it's already happened? Sort of. And Mr. Sullivan what does your model say that means for us here? Well, that's where it becomes a projection. But... looks down at for approval to go forward. You're speaking with me Mr. Sullivan. Well... sir... if those assets were to decrease by just 25 percent, and remain on our books... well... that loss would be greater than the current market capitalization of this company. The room goes silent. looks at long and hard. He then stands up and goes over to the window and looks into the city. So what you're telling me Mr. Sullivan is that the music appears to be about to stop and we are going to be holding the biggest bag of stinking shit ever assembled in the history of capitalism? Everyone looks back at (cont'd) Mr. Sullivan? Well sir, I'm not sure I'd put it that way but let me clarify using your analogy, what this model shows is the music, so to speak, just slowing, if the music were to stop, as you put it, then this model would not be even close to that scenario. It would be considerably worse. Well let me tell you something Mr. Sullivan. Do you want to know why I'm sitting here in this chair with you all, why get the big bucks, so to speak? Yes. I'm here for one reason and one reason only. continues to look out over the city for a long beat. (cont'd) I'm here to guess what the music is gonna do a week, month, a year from now. That's it, nothing more....... and I'm afraid... standing here tonight... that don't hear... a... thing... just silence. The room falls completely still for at least half a minute. Then spins around quickly with a considerably more upbeat tone and looks up and down the table. (cont'd) So, now that we know that the music has stopped, what can we do about it? Long Silence. (cont'd) Mr. Cohen, Ms. Robertson, I'm afraid this is where you are supposed to step back in. Lord knows we relied enough on Mr. Sullivan today. and come to attention and gather their thoughts. (cont'd) What have you got for us? Long pause. (cont'd) What have told you since the first day you walked into my office? (pause) That there are three ways to make a living in this business... Be first, be smarter, or cheat. Well don't cheat, and even though like to think we have got some pretty smart people in this building of the two remaining options, it sure is a hell of alot easier to just be first. The room goes silent again as Mr. Tuld stares back out the window. Sell it all today... smiles just a bit. Then turns. Is that even possible Sam? looks across the room at they have known each other for 35 years. It is, but at what cost? I'll pay. Really? and look and read each other. think so. Almost a trillion bucks of paper? Where does it come back to us? Everywhere. Sam, don't think you seem to understand what your boy down here just said... if made you... how would you do it? looks down at the table for a long, long, beat. You bring the traders in for their normal 6:30 meeting and you be honest with them, they're gonna know it's the end either way, so you'd have to throw them a bone, and a pretty big one. You'd have to come out of the gate storming... 40 percent done by 10:15 and 70 percent of your positions need to be gone by eleven, cause by lunch the word will be out. No swaps, no nothing, and by two o'clock you'll be getting 65 cents on the dollar, if you're lucky, and the feds will be in here looking up your ass and trying to slow us down. Ramesh? He looks to down the table. They'll slow you down but it's yours to sell. They can't stop you. John... let's just say we pull that off, which is saying something... the real question is... who are we selling this to? The same people you've been selling this to for the last two years... and whoever else will buy it. They look at each other to see if they understand each other. If you do this you've killed that market for years. It's over. (Nods.) And you are selling something you know has no value. (cuts him off cold) We are selling to willing buyers at the current fair market price, so that may survive, Sam. You'll never sell a thing to any one of them again. understand. Do you? Do you!!! This is it, Sam, this is it! The rest of the table is taken aback and just watching them go at it. Silence. (cont'd) It's 4:00... Jared you've got till 5:00 to break this down and draw me up a plan. (cont'd) Is there anyone else who actually knows what's in there right now, block by block? Eric Dale. Where is Eric Dale? As of today he is no longer with the firm. We have been trying to locate him. So he is just out there with this information? (Nods yes.) looks down the lawyer side of the table to a secret service looking guy. Carmelo? Yes. Get me Eric Dale here by 6:30. Done. meet back here in an hour. Everyone stands up and begins to scatter. (cont'd) Sam... let's talk. leads through the back door. They are now alone looking out over the city as the light from the soon to be rising sun is starting to show on the horizon. Long silence. Hell of a town isn't it? Never really did it for me actually. Really? Always been kinda a grass and tree guy. I've always loved this place. Ever since arrived. Everything about it. can't say feel that about anyplace actually. Are you going to be able to come on board here Sam? They look at each other. I'm not sure John. This is really ugly. You and are salesmen Sam, we sell. That's what we do. It's not complicated. Exactly. And you damn well know that you don't make a sale unless you think the guy is gonna come back for more, and tomorrow we are done. looks out and then over at and decides whether or not to proceed. This is it Sam. You keep saying that, what is that supposed to mean? It's the big one. Most of us aren't gonna make it out of this one. Us? The street. What are you talking about? This won't be the last `situation' will be having this week. It's just the start. It's only the start because we are starting it. Maybe. But don't think that's true, not this time. The numbers just don't add up anymore. Well agree with you there, I've been saying that for years. mean if this kid can come up with this...? don't think can go in knowing what know and put the hammer down on these guys like this. Oh please, when did you become so soft. Fuck you soft, you're panicking. The word panic slaps in the face. He then calms. If you're the first one out the door Sam, it's not called panicking stares aggressively at Look, obviously don't have all the information that you do. But think this could destroy this firm. (cont'd) You'll never be trusted again. You are knowingly putting people out of business. Full stop. turns away from and heads over to a phone. You let me take care of that. heads out the door. Sam heads into the hallway where everyone is mingling. He walks over to and How'd that go? This is a fucking shit show. They are going to do it? Probably. Jesus. Remember this day boys, remember this day. walks out of the room. An assistant comes into the room. Gentlemen, there is some breakfast down the hall if you guys are hungry. looks at the guys. Seth, someone is going to have to get breakfast. And let's face it, it's you. is waiting for the elevator again as walks up and waits with him in silence. There is a housekeeping person standing next to them as well. The doors open, and all three get in. So what's the strategy here? That's where I'm headed right now, downstairs to work on it with my guys. No, you and with Tuld. I'm not sure we need one, Sarah. That's not the way I've ever done this. (with distinct sarcasm) Please. He knows where we both have stood on this all along. There's nothing more to do. This pushes a button with her. That's exactly my point, and knowing what was discussed by both you and with him, don't see how that can possibly you with anything but a false sense of comfort. I'm not looking for a sense of comfort here, Sarah. don't think there is one to be found. The elevator door opens and the housekeeper gets off. Sarah walks after her, but turns to Tuld first. So again, what's the strategy here? On this particular front, I'm just not sure there's much left to do. looks at him trying to judge the situation. holds the door open. It's very simple. Don't even think of fucking me on this one, because if we are going down... you damn well know its going to be together. Jared looks at her for a long beat. No, I'm not sure do know that. The doors close. is sitting at his desk with a large plate of food eating. and are sitting on the couch. is stuffing food in his mouth while eats nothing. What do you think Tuld made last year? Would you shut the fuck up. speaks with food in his mouth. 86 mil. in salary and bonus. Really? Yeah, it's public record. That's a lot of fucking money. He was worth a billion. Was? Before today. Really? You'll see. think I'm going to go get a coffee, does anyone need anything. (Slight head shake no.) need a little real air. Probably a good idea. Will, is that alright? Alright? If get out of here for a minute? Yeah. Are you kidding? It's not a prison. Do you want me to hold your hand? Peter exits. Will's phone rings. Will stares at it and finally picks it up. We only hear his part of the conversation. (cont'd) Will Emerson...Yes...Oh thank you...I understand...OK. comes to the door of office. He looks at everyone's faces. What? That was Eric's wife. He's alive, he's home. He doesn't want to talk to us. And he doesn't know she called me. They all look to to see what to do. Where's he live? The heights. looks at his watch. (cont'd) Should we call Tuld's guy? No... it's Eric... the last thing we need is those guys going over there, you two go try to get him. points to and (cont'd) But you've got to be back here by 6:00. is sitting behind her desk looking down at something. comes to the door and knocks lightly. She looks up surprised to see him. May come in? Please, sit. closes the door and sits in front of her desk. Looks around, then looks right at her. So... we are going to do this thing. It's going to be tight. Is Sam on board? Not yet. pauses. (cont'd) Sarah, need a head to feed to these traders... and the board... this morning. looks up. Is it me or Cohen? It's you. They stare at each other, she does not flinch. Of course you are well aware filtered several warnings for you and Cohen over a year ago on this? I'm not sure that's the best path for you to be taking at this point... you're going to be taken care of here... (Nods) Obviously it's quite complicated. John was told that in no uncertain terms... It was all a very grey area. It was actually made very clear at the time, by you and and Cohen. I'd really prefer that you didn't fight me on this... pauses, they look at each other. (cont'd) We all fucked this one up pretty good... Yes. We need you to stay here till this is all done and the markets close. understand. They'll go over the numbers with you downstairs... Good luck. looks at her. There is a security person standing at the door who is waiting for her as he gets up and walks out. and are sitting waiting for car to be brought up. As they wait they see come out of the elevator and walk towards them. Ah fuck, it's Jared. He's coming this way. What does wonderboy want? stands up and walks over to Do you have a minute? We're heading to get Eric Dale. know. just need a second. walk away from What is it? Tuld and have concerns that Sam may not be willing to step up and do the right thing here. looks around the garage, than back at don't think that's ever been a problem. Of course it hasn't, but during acute situations, such as this, often what is right can take on multiple interpretations. They look at each other for a long beat as sizes up the question. In the background the squeals of tires on concrete are heard. Sam will step up. know he will...but if he doesn't... As the question stands unfinished Will's convertible flies into frame down a ramp and pulls up next to and The attendant gets out and before has a chance hands the attendant a tip. then looks back at who is waiting to get in the car. (cont'd) But if he doesn't, we need to know that you will. That will what? Step up. climbs into the car and shuts the door. He looks at through the open window with now sitting next to him within earshot. have no doubt Sam will make the right choice. And if it makes you feel any better he and have always had the same interpretation of what's right...no matter how acute the situation. puts the car in drive and pulls out of the garage leaving standing there. The floor is totally empty. Slow guitar music playing. The camera glides along the empty floor scanning over the many different empty trading stations and the hundreds of computer screens. It turns the corner and then finally enters office. He is totally asleep. He has headphones on and looks like he could be dead he is so passed out. The music suddenly changes pace and the volume change startles him up. He looks around. He takes the headphones off, music stops. He finally stands up and mildly limps his way out the office Sam mildly limps down the hallway into the mens room. comes across the room and over to the sinks to wash his hands. He looks in the mirror, and then decides to wash his face as well. He stares at himself in the mirror. The water drips off his face. He looks old. Just then the door opens and walks into the room. He does not go to use any of the facilities. He stops and looks to talk to There he is. John. walks over and takes a towel to wipe off his hands and face. Finally he looks up. (cont'd) So what's it look like John? The line is delivered a bit too lightly for liking. Cohen has done a nice job. It can work. What does that mean? It means, as you very well know, that you are a very important piece of this puzzle. They look directly at each other. (cont'd) Here. hands a single piece of folded paper. opens it and looks at it. That's very generous. It's not a gift. need to know you are with me on this. I'm with the firm John. is now taking a far more forceful stance, almost blocking the doorway. won't get what need out of your boys today unless they believe you... unless they believe in you completely. He stares at (cont'd) Are you in? told you have my reservations. Well you can't have any reservations. They both stare at each other. (cont'd) And need to know now. looks down at the floor then at the piece of paper in his hand, then long and hard at I'm with the firm completely John, as always have been. Excuse me. slightly moves out of the way and then he exits, the door closes. There is a haunting blue light bouncing through the buildings. is walking through the streets with mid-size headphones on his ears. The music is all we hear. He wanders around the almost completely empty city and the further he walks the less his face changes. finally stops to get a coffee at a small street cart. He takes off his headphones to pay and the music stops. The wind blows. One fifty. Thank you. turns around and starts walking but as he looks up he see the figure of a woman coming towards him. It is immediately obvious that he knows her. He stops and she keeps slowly walking towards him. They stop in front of each other squarely. Hey... Hi. It's really good to see you. She has a very sweet face but looks tired. She appears to be a bartender or something, she is not dressed for banking. You too. You look tired. am. What are you doing here? never left work. Just had to get out for a walk. You're still working there? This cuts him a bit, why wouldn't he be? Yes, of course... Oh. thought... How are you? Are you happy? You look happy. am. Well, should get back... How's your father? She is pleasantly surprised by this gesture. He's good. Thanks for asking. Be safe. He starts to leave. Hey... You got any inside tips for him? This stops dead in his tracks. His world tightens yet clarifies. Finally. Sell. She looks at him with concern as he doesn't even hint at a smile as he says this. They then give a small kiss on the cheek, and part. is sitting at her desk staring out the window. She calmly gets up and walks over to the door and slowly closes it. Then she reaches out and twists the blinds on the glass wall separating her office from the floor giving herself total privacy. She walks over to her desk and sits down. She reaches over and grabs a box of tissues, methodically preparing to cry, almost like a surgeon preparing to work. She sits at her desk still seemingly calm and collected. Her face starts to tweak just a little, but it just will not give way. Again she tries. And again. She can not cry. She can't believe it. The deeply tragic look of total failure floods her eyes but still hardly a twitch on her face. Still no tears. Finally she makes a forced noise like a sob, but it isn't real and she knows it. Then she tries to laugh to herself, she tries again to laugh, but it too is not real. She does feel something, but she simply and very sadly can only openly express even to herself... nothing. and pull up in front of a very nice large townhouse. They both look up at the house dreading going in. Jesus, nice place. He just bought it. hope it was with cash. You are such a prick, and it wasn't. think should stay here. Get out of the fucking car. just don't think it would be appropriate. Appropriate? Get the fuck out of the car. Really? You're probably right... And don't touch any of the fucking buttons. gets out of the car and walks slowly up the stairs. He is about to knock on the door when from behind him he hears coming walking up the block. He is still in his work clothes and it looks like it's been a long night. What are you doing here? Peter finished that model you were working on. Really? It's created a bit of a shit storm. Yeah, bet. Do you want to see it... the model? No. Really? No. But I'm pretty sure what it says. Do you think he's right? I'm sure he's right. They both sit down on the stoop. Jared Cohen called an emergency meeting of the partners tonight. John Tuld has decided to liquidate our entire position. looks over at Will (cont'd) Today. face doesn't show much emotion. But he is surprised and sincere. Well, am very sorry to hear that. They want me to get you back there, they are worried about you being out here. (with pleasant disgust) Please. I'm just saying. (cuts him off cold) Not a chance. lets it sit for a few beats. This is serious shit Eric. You don't think know that. I've been warning that cunt Robertson about this shit since last March. Well... Fuck her... Fuck her. Look... signed my papers man, I'm out. They've got nothing on me anymore. They'll pay... looks over at lets him know with a look that they mean real money. I've already been paid enough by them. looks back out onto the empty street. (cont'd) Did you know built a bridge once? I'm sorry? bridge. No, didn't. was an engineer by trade. Well... It goes from Dilles Bottom, Ohio to Moundsville West Virginia. It spans 912 feet over the Ohio river. Steel through arch design. 12,100 people a day use the thing. (cont'd) It cut out 35 miles each way of extra driving to get from Wheeling to New Martinsville. That's a combined 847,000 miles of driving a day... and 25,410,000 miles a month and 304,920,000 miles a year saved. Now mind is racing and he is adding up numbers as he goes. (cont'd) completed that project in 1986... 22 years ago. Over the life of that one bridge that's 6 billion... 708 million... 240 thousand miles that haven't had to be driven! At let's say... 50 miles an hour that's 134,164,800 hours... or 559,020 days... so that one little bridge has saved the people of those two communities a combined 1531 years of their lives not wasted in the car... give or take. Jesus. One thousand, five hundred, thirty-one years... Fuck... They sit and let it sink in. That's what did. (beat) Look... you better get back over there. Yeah. Crazy shit. True. Dumping the whole fucking motherload in one day. Fucked up. Well... alright. Thanks for stopping by. No problem. looks out down the street as a black towncar comes pulling up to the house. Who the fuck is this? I'd guess it's the firm's people. What? Tuld doesn't want any loose ends. They fired me Will. Fuck em... Fuck em. Just come back with them, take the bonus, and you're home tonight by five. Either that or they are going to fight you on everything, the package, the options... drops his head. walks down the stairs as the town car stops in front of Eric's house. The windows are tinted, but they know who it is. walks around to his car. (cont'd) You're a better man than Well that's always been true. Yes it has. See ya. is about to climb in his car. The house looks great by the way. Thanks. And Eric...don't beat yourself up too bad over this shit. Yeah. Who the fuck knows. nods. (cont'd) Some people like driving the long way home. He gets in his car and drives away. and are driving slowly towards downtown Manhattan which spans up and out in front of them through the windshield. There is a long silence, and finally. So, am getting fired? don't know. Very long pause, then he looks over at and decides whether to tell the truth. (cont'd) Probably...yes...almost definitely. Are you? No. This clearly hits but he recovers quickly. Oh. It's not personal, you're just in the wrong place at the wrong time, the young guys are always the first to go. Nothing say is gonna make you feel any better. get it. looks over at and around at the interior of the luxury car and then back into the city. (cont'd) When did you know this is what you wanted to do? He thinks that through. The first time made 36 million dollars for the firm in the last eleven minutes of the trading day. Fuck me. It was a perfect trade...I saw it coming from three days away. took my time. was in, was out...Pish posh...And it was beautiful. How did you learn to do that? I'm not sure, and whatever it is it could be gone tomorrow. looks out again at the city then to (cont'd) Look man I'm sorry about this. Don't be, you're not doing it to me. know...but I'm still sorry. At least you'll have some decent cash to walk away with. Only if we can get this done, right? We'll get it done. How? I'm trying to figure that out right now. There aren't really enough willing buyers out there right now. I'm trying to think of every last one of them can and then I'll make them willing. This line sits there for a minute and looks out onto the city. Are you ok with that? I'm about to completely fuck guys I've been doing business with for fifteen years so no I'm not exactly ok with it. But look, every last one of them would do the same thing to me in a second...so it is what it is. guess. And what about everyone else? Everyone else? Normal people. What are you a socialist? Fuck me Seth. looks over at sizing him up, looking to see if he has what it takes. (cont'd) Look, If you want to do this with your life, and do it well, you need to believe that you are necessary. And you are. If people want to live like this...with their big cars and these houses that they haven't even paid for. Then you are necessary. The only reason they can continue to live like kings is because we've got our fingers on the scale in favor. And if were to take my finger off... (cont'd) Then the whole world gets really fucking fair, really fucking quickly. And no one wants that, they say they do...but they don't. They want what we're giving them, but they also want to play innocent and pretend they have no idea how we get it. And that's more hypocrisy than can swallow. So fuck em. Long look out at the city ahead. (cont'd) And tomorrow if this all goes south they'll crucify us for being reckless, but if we are wrong and everything get's back on track. They'll be laughing their arses off at us for being the biggest bunch of pussies that God ever let through the door. He is trying to convince himself as much as They both look out the windows. Are we gonna be wrong on this one? looks into the sea of skyscrapers that now tower above them. No...they're all gonna get fucked. is still walking around on the street with the music playing. He crosses a large open windswept corporate plaza. As he approaches the building he sees standing in front having a cigarette. He walks towards him and then finally decides to take off the headphones. The music stops and the wind kicks in. Hello. Peter. (silence) You want one? don't smoke. But holds his place comfortably. That's good. don't much either. It's kinda beautiful out right now. They both look out. Slow pacing. Yeah, guess it is... (almost surprised) I've never really liked this town much. How long have you been here? Forty years. think it's beautiful. The whole place. Forty years, that's something... Are you tired? Of What?... Remember don't work as hard as you do. That's not true. No it is, actually. Long silence. Are we all getting fired after today? looks out and thinks about it for a while. Probably. They're going to fire you? That's not what they'll call it,... it'll be a mercy killing really. looks at (cont'd) You don't have to stand out here for me. don't really want to go back in there just yet. understand that. Long beat. think know your son. Really? Yeah. Not well... but, he always seemed like a nice person. He is a nice person. taxi honks and flies by. (cont'd) guess you could say alot worse about a guy. Have you told him what's about to happen? They look at each other to check the nature of the question. What do you mean? This whole thing. No... hadn't even thought of it. guess it's illegal anyway? Yeah... who the fuck knows anymore.... and even if it was you'd sure as hell never get caught. He's already pretty rich anyway though right? He doesn't need the help. laughs quietly. That's very true. He works with a friend of mine. He's a hell of alot richer than me, know that much. But you are taller. Laughs again. That's true. It's not much... but it's something... What did your father do? He's a doctor. Really? Eyes. Now that's something. Yeah... it is. Did he want you to do that? No, never. Oh. He was always a pretty miserable guy actually... Another helicopter is heard overhead landing on the building. Peter looks up. (cont'd) They're all coming in now. Yes they are. Have you ever done anything like this before? No... never.... not even close. takes a deep drag off his cigarette. Oh... Yeah. looks down at his watch, then thinks about what to say next. Do you really think this is the only... or the... right thing to do? For who? I'm not sure. Now looks around and thinks. I'm not either. So this is gonna make a pretty big mess of it, then? don't even want to think about it. Yeah. Just doesn't quite seem... Takes another long drag. know. (Very slightly shakes his head.) Well. guess we should get back. Yeah. They both stand in place for a long beat then finally turn and head into the building. The camera follows them through the long marble lobby. Through security. They comfortably don't talk to each other the entire time till they get into the elevator. Staring ahead in silence. Well good luck, you know, in the future... Seems like you'll probably be just fine. Thank you. The doors open. very tight shot of sitting fully clothed on the toilet with the lid on. He is crying very, very intensely but almost silently. He puts his head in his hands and just once or twice lets out a loud noise. Eventually someone comes into the room and he hears the person go over to the sink and start running water. tries to stop himself from crying. Eventually he accepts that the guy is not leaving and he comes out of the stall and walks over to the sinks. is standing in front of the mirror with his shirt off shaving. His new shirt and tie are on a hanger next to him. walks up to a sink next to him and it is very obvious that he has been crying. He undoes his collar and starts to wash his face. Finally speaks. You alright? sends him a dagger of a look through the reflection in the mirror. You just fired me. I'm sorry... This is all I've ever wanted to do. Really? Yes... This hits just a touch. am sorry. does up his tie perfectly looks at again in the eye. Then walks out. is sitting in a club chair staring out the window. The coffee table in front of her has a huge spread of fruit and cheese and pastries. She is not eating. She sits and stares. Eventually the door behind her opens, and a walks in with They are almost ready for you Ms. Robertson. Couple of minutes. leaves the room. looks over at then sits in the chair near her. Silence. You as well? Yes. Jesus. Yeah. I'm sorry. Thank you... Sam and the rest of your floor are gone after today as well. Really... and Cohen? No... still here. Of course... Long awkward pause. Eric looks around for something, anything to talk about. (cont'd) Are you still dating that tall guy... from the Christmas thing? She looks over at him with a slight smile, giving him credit for trying to break the ice. No. He was very tall. (quietly) Wow. Silence. did pass on your concerns last year... just so you know. It doesn't matter. It does. The door swings open and a catering person comes in rolling a cart with another large tray with more food on it. She places it on the table next to the other food. The abundance is overwhelming. (cont'd) Thank you. The caterer leaves. looks around. Have they taken all the phones out of this room? nods yes. (cont'd) Jesus. Paranoid fucks. Yeah... didn't think they were going to be able to get you back here. stands up and goes over to the window. They told me they were going to drag me through hell on everything from my options to healthcare over the next two years or come back and make... (he looks up and does a little math in his head) $176,471.00 an hour to sit in this room quietly... it wasn't much of choice. It never is. goes back and sits in the chair. (cont'd) Obviously looking back, the point was expressed with insufficient urgency... (cont'd) but your point was passed on... need you to know that. Eric. understand, there was nothing you could do. Now questions herself. guess... at the time... it didn't seem like there was much of a choice. It never does. They both look at each other with miniscule smiles, then out the windows onto the city, defeated. Long silence. You have kids, yeah? Long pause as he lets her alone. What is your package going to look like? don't know, that's what I'm waiting for now. Should be pretty good, no? It better be. There are 40 young, 90% male, traders jammed into the conference room next to the trading floor talking very loudly with one another. They are oblivious to what is about to happen. Eventually, and a firm lawyer, come into the room. Everyone quiets down a bit. Alright, hey...(whistles). They go silent as they notice standing at the head of the table. and the lawyer are standing off in the corner just to observe. looks somber. Thank you all for coming in a little early this morning, know yesterday was pretty bad, wish could say that today is going to be less so but that isn't going to be the case. Now am supposed to read this statement here to you all but how bout you read it on your own time and I'll just tell you what the fuck's going on here. looks at then they look at he continues. (cont'd) have spent the night here meeting with the executive committee and the decision has been made to begin to unwind a considerable portion of the firm's holdings in several key asset classes. The crux of it is... in the firm's thinking the party is over as of this morning. There is going to be considerable turmoil in the markets for the foreseeable future. They believe that it is better to have this turmoil begin with us... as a result the firm has decided to liquidate the majority of its position of fixed income today. An assistant starts handing out info packets to each of the traders in the room. (cont'd) You should be getting a breakdown right now, you will see the accounts you are responsible for today. I'm sure it hasn't taken you long to understand the implications of this sale on your relationships with your counterparties and as a result on your careers. have expressed this reality to the executive committee and they understand. As a result, if you are able to complete a 93% sale of your assets you will receive a 1.4 million dollar one off bonus. (cont'd) If the floor as a whole is able to achieve a 93% sale we all get an additional 1.3 million a piece. Because of this, if you burn through your allotment by noon, get moving around the floor and start picking up other guys leftovers... stops for a second and looks around the room. (cont'd) For those of you who have never been through this before, this is what the beginning of a fire sale looks like. don't have to tell any of you that the first hour and a half is going to be very important. want you to hit every bite you can find. Dealers, clients, brokers, and your mother if she's buying...and obviously no swaps, its outgoing only today. This is obviously not the way any of us would like for this to be going down, but the ground is shifting below our feet, and there appears to be no other way out. looks around the room again, person by person and sees that they indeed know what needs to be done. (cont'd) Obviously... this is a very unique situation... if we are successful today we will have been successful in destroying our own jobs... can not promise that each of you will be repositioned within the firm, but can tell you that am very proud of the work we have done together here, have been at this here for 34 years, and know... from experience people are going to say some nasty stuff about what we have done here, and what you have devoted a portion of your life to. But have faith that in the greater picture our skills have not been wasted, we have accomplished much, and our talents have served some greater good... He looks down at the ground, then back up around the room. Then he walks out. There is a very quiet energy on the floor. low murmur. Then a hush falls over the floor as people pass on the info that the is about to come onto the floor. He appears at one end of the floor and it falls silent. walks dramatically into the middle of the floor and then into the middle of the row in the dead middle of the floor. He looks around and stands in letting the drama build. Then he climbs up onto the desk and looks out onto the floor like a general. By the end of today almost everyone else in the world, including me, will have considerably less money than they began the day with..... You, in this room, are the exception. You will leave here today richer. You will fire the first shot, wish it didn't have to be, but at times the market must eat its weak, and you all... are not the weak. We must strike quick, with no doubt, if you hear pause on the line, attack. By noon the is going to be in here getting in your faces, sniffing around, you let us take care of them and you just keep going. We own what we are choosing to sell today and there is nothing they can do about it. 107 years ago this firm was founded, today we secure our place for next 107. You've got two minutes before we get started. Let's finish this, so we can get on to the next one... climbs down from the table. who is standing off to the side, walks along the entire floor slowly and then heads into his office. He shuts his door as the bell rings and his office goes almost silent. Through the glass you see the trading floor go wild, then he walks over to his desk, turns around and stares into the four large computer screens as the charts and graphs begin to move. We just see the back of his head. Several actual individual trading sequences throughout the day. The market has closed. sits, staring at his computers. There is a knock on his door. He turns and as it opens we hear the sober beginnings of a quiet celebration. He looks up and is standing in his doorway. Well done. They did alright. wanted to give you a heads up. They are going to start sending some people home out here. Now? (He nods yes) Sorry. No loose ends. Of course. For what it's worth, you're good... Guess somebody upstairs must really like you. stands up and walks past without another word. He heads down the hallway and passes the and from the opening scene who are returning with boxes to lay off more people. heads off towards the elevator. The room has ten tables formally set that line a long wall of floor to ceiling windows with a commanding view of the city beyond. The room is empty except for sitting at the last table. looks a little surprised to see but waves him down. approaches. Sam, please sit. Congratulations are clearly in order. Our guys did what they could. You did a hell of a job today, and thank you for it. Sit, excuse me for eating but it's been a long day. Can get you anything? No, no thanks. They just sit in silence for a long beat as takes a few more bites of his meal. So what can do for you? want out. I'm sorry? I'm done, want out. It's been a very difficult day, for everyone. need you to release my options, that is if they're still worth anything after today, and need the bonus. I'm out. You'll get the bonus, the options, and keep your current base, but need you to stay with me for another 24 months. They look at each other, seems to know it's not actually a question. is a shell of himself as takes another hearty bite of his meal. He finally looks up. (cont'd) For God's sake man put a smile on your face, you did some good today, you said so yourself. I'm starting to feel a little better about this whole thing. You're one of the luckiest guys in the world, you could've been digging ditches all these years... pushes back his chair, stands, and prepares to leave. That's true, and if had been at least there'd be some holes in the ground to show for it. I'm just not quite sure how we fucked this thing up so badly. This pushes a bit too far. He also senses he may be losing He drops his fork, and his tone changes. Jesus, when did you start feeling so sorry for yourself, it's unbearable... What, you think we may have helped put some people out of business today? That it's all just for naught? Well you've been doing that everyday for almost forty years Sam. And if all this is for naught then so is everything else out there. It's just money, it's made up, a piece of paper with some pictures on it so we don't all kill each other trying to get something to eat. But it's not wrong and it's certainly not any different today than it's ever been. Ever. 1637, 1797, `73, and 1987... God damn did that motherfucker fuck me up good, 92, 97, 2000, and whatever this is gonna be called. They're just the same thing over and over. We can't help ourselves, and you and can't control it, stop it, slow it, or even ever so slightly alter it... We just react... and we get paid well for it if we're right... and get left by the side of the road if we're wrong. There's always been and there's always gonna be the same percentage of winners and losers, happy fucks and sad sacks, fat pigs and starving dogs in this world... yes there may be more of us today... but the percentages... they always stay exactly the same. They stare at each other for a long beat and then looks down and takes another bite. He chews. He looks up again. I'll do it John, but not because of your little speech, but because need the money. I'm not sure how it could possibly be after all these years, but need the money. They both look at each other again, then look over and see walking down the dining room aisle with next to him. (cont'd) You're keeping the kid? Keeping him? He's getting promoted. It's all hands on deck now Sam, there's going to be a lot of money to be made coming out of this mess, we're going to need all the brains we can get around here. They look at each other one last time then starts walking away and as he passes he just gives him a slight nod. We hear the sound of someone digging in dirt with a shovel. Fade up on standing in a hole in the backyard digging. Next to him is a large black medical-looking bag. He continues to dig. Eventually the flood lights from the house come on and the whole back yard lights up. Then the door opens and a woman in her fifties wearing a bath robe and slippers comes out onto the deck. It is She squints towards the back of the yard. Hello! ... I've called the police. stops digging and looks up and leans on the shovel handle. Mary. Sam? Yup. What are you doing? She comes down off the deck and walks across the lawn up next to the hole. (cont'd) What are you doing? Ella died. looks down and sees the large canine body bag. Oh God. Tumor on her liver. It was horrible. Well I'm very sorry. Yeah... really loved that dog know, but Sam you don't live here anymore. was driving home from the vet and this is the only place could think to bury her. This is where she belongs... She looks at him deeply. Well. You should have called. know. Are you alright? You look terrible. Yeah. Tough day all around. heard, Sammy called. Is he alright? He said they got hammered, but got out alive. Good, was going to call him this morning... but... Well, am going to go back in to bed. The alarm is on so don't try to break in. (Sam smiles) Well, you take care of yourself. Is it alright if finish up here? Yes. walks back across the lawn into the house and turns off the lights. starts back in digging the ditch and starts humming a song. He keeps digging as the song he is humming then kicks in with the full version. Margin Call : Chandor