<b><!-- </b>if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> - Shooting Script clasped between finger and thumb: a crude, crime scene flash picture of a lying on a decaying wooden floor, a where his head should be. The image in the photo starts to as we The hand holding the photo suddenly it in a rapid motion, then holds it still. The image fades more, and again the picture is As the image fades to nothing. The hand holding the photo it again, then places it at the front of a The camera the blank picture up, then the The Polaroid camera is lowered, revealing the sweaty, heavy- breathing face of (mid-30's). There are droplets of blood across his face. Leonard stares, satisfied, at something on the ground in front of him. There is on his and His hand opens and catches a which leaps up into his grasp. Still staring, he crouches down and pulls a off the floor by the wet hair of its He slowly inserts the barrel of the gun into the bloody mess where the mouth should be. Leonard as wet red leaps off his face and suit and head, with a reassembles itself into the face of (40's, moustache) and we- Close on Leonard's eyes. He rolls them to one side, then turns his head. So where are you? Leonard lifts his head. He is lying on a queen-sized bed. (cont'd) You're in some motel room. late model Jaguar bumps across some railroad tracks and approaches a large, clearly abandoned Leonard is driving. He wears a and (no blood). Next to him is Leonard stops the car next to a sitting Outside the derelict building. Leonard kills the engine, staring at the pickup. Looks like somebody's home. Teddy looks from Leonard to the pickup and back. That thing's been here for years. Leonard gets out of the Jaguar and moves to the pickup. He inspects it with a methodical, practiced eye. Teddy follows. think you're wrong. These tracks aren't * more than a few days old. Leonard opens the door of the pickup and searches the interior. On the dirty vinyl of the passenger seat he finds * six Leonard picks two of them up and studies them. * He drops them onto the dashboard then the door. * (cont'd) Let's take a look inside. Leonard walks towards the house, patting his jacket pockets. Teddy leans on the pickup, uneasy, watching Leonard. Leonard stands in the dimly-lit, decaying former hallway. He pulls a stack of out of his pocket and leafs through them as Teddy starts walking towards him. Leonard finds a photo showing Teddy with a shit-eating grin standing in front of the pickup truck. On the broad white strip beneath the photo is handwritten: Leonard flips the photo over. On the white strip on the back, in the same small handwriting. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 I've finally found him. How long have * been looking? * Leonard stuffs the Polaroids back into his pocket, reaches around to the back of his waistband and draws a keeping it out of Teddy's line of sight. Teddy enters, wary. Find anything? Didn't think so, let's go, yeah? Leonard neither replies nor turns around. Teddy, worried, affects a casual air, shrugging dismissively, (cont'd) Fuck this. Teddy turns and heads for the door. Leonard on him, pistol-whipping him furiously as he shouts: Teddy is down. Leonard him back, deeper into the dark house. Leonard is in a frenzy. He dumps Teddy at the end of the hall and stands over him. Teddy You don't have a clue, you freak. Leonard crouches down and grabs Teddy by the lapels. Beg my forgiveness! Beg my wife's forgiveness before blow your brains out! Leonard, you don't have a clue what's going on. You don't even know my name. (triumphant smile) Teddy! Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 You read it off your fucking photo. You don't know me, you don't even know who you are. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 I'm Leonard Shelby, I'm from San Francisco and I'm - (bloody grin) That's who you were, you don't know who you are. Shut your mouth! Lemme take you down in the basement and show you what you've become. Teddy gestures towards the basement door, in pain, but enjoying Leonard's growing anxiety. (cont'd) (intimate) C'mon, Lenny - we'll take a look down there together. Then you'll know. You'll know what you really are. Leonard glances fearfully at the door, then looks at Teddy. He the barrel of his gun into Teddy's mouth and Teddy panics, shaking his head, trying to talk around the metal, but just as Leonard pulls the trigger. rings out as we - Leonard lies on the queen-sized bed. He lifts his head. So you're in some motel room... He gets up, surveys the room as if for the first time. He wears and a (cont'd) ... you don't know how long you've been there, or how you got there... There is a room key on the dresser. The plastic tag identifies it as the key to 21. Leonard opens drawers in the room. (cont'd) Just some anonymous motel room. Won't tell you anything. Nothing in the drawers, but you look anyway. He reaches for the bedside table drawer. (cont'd) Nothing except the Gideon Bible. He opens the drawer to find a Gideon Bible. of fingers rifling bills in a wallet. Leonard counts out some money and hands it to the fat, sweaty middle-aged man behind the counter. Burt takes the money, spotting something over Leonard's shoulder. That guy's here already. Burt the of Teddy which is sitting on the counter. Leonard picks up the photo and turns to see Teddy the glass door of the office. Leonard watches carefully as Teddy shambles up to the office door. as Teddy enters and breaks into his shit-eating grin. Leonard slips the photo into his pocket. Lenny! Leonard nods in apparent recognition, wary. It's Leonard... like told you before. Teddy pretends to think hard. Did you? musta forgot. I'm Teddy. * (smiles) guess I've told you about my condition. Teddy grins and holds the door open for Leonard. Only every time see ya! Pink Revision - 9/7/99 Teddy starts for a Leonard pauses behind him. My car. Teddy glances back in surprise. This is your car. (shakes head) You're in a playful mood. Leonard holds up a Polaroid of a late model (cont'd) Shouldn't make fun of somebody's * handicap. Teddy smiles and heads for the parked several cars further down. Just trying to have a little fun. Leonard drives, Teddy admires the new car' s interior, reaching down around the seats, exploring the car with his hands. Roll your window up, will ya? Leonard hits his window button. few fragments of safety glass rise out of the door, remnants of a broken window. It's broken. Teddy looks, curious. can get that fixed for you. Leonard shrugs. (cont'd) So where are we going, Sherlock? Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Leonard fishes a note out of his pocket. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 got a lead on a place. Leonard checks the note, then hands it to Teddy. (surprised at the note) What the hell you want to go there for? You know it? Yeah, it's just this fucked-up building. * Why are we going there? (smiling) don't remember. The Jaguar crosses the railroad tracks and approaches the Leonard stops the car next to the and kills the engine, staring at the pickup. Looks like somebody's home. Leonard, wearing and takes the out off the open bedside table drawer. Nothing except the Gideon Bible. He leafs through a couple off pages, then the Bible back into the drawer and shuts it. He notices a written on the back off his hand: (cont'd) Sammy Jankis had the same problem. He * tried writing himself notes. Lots of * notes. But he'd get confused. Leonard licks his thumb, and rubs at the writing. To Leonard's surprise, He notices his bare legs. There is a taped to his with a handwritten message: Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Leonard pulls the note off, studying it carefully. Close on the Polaroid of Teddy. Leonard flips it over. On the back are the messages: Leonard writes another message beneath these two: He sticks the photo of Teddy as he holds his up and checks that it is loaded. He sticks the in the back of his waistband, the in his jacket pocket, slings the over his shoulder. Leonard leaves room 304 and heads to the office. He pauses just outside the glass door, breathing, psyching himself up. Leonard enters , confident, smiling at the man behind the desk, (fat, sweaty, 40's). Burt smiles back. Hiya. I'm Mr. Shelby from 304. What can do for you, Leonard? I'm sorry... um... ? Burt. Burt, I'm not sure, but may have asked you to hold my calls - Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 You don't know? think may have. I'm not good on the phone. (nods) You said you like to look people in the eye when you talk to them. Don't you remember? That's the thing. have this condition. Condition? have no memory. Amnesia? No. It's different. have no short-term memory. know who am and all about myself, but since my injury can't make any new memories. Everything fades. If we talk for too long, I'll forget how we started. don't know if we've ever met before, and the next time see you won't remember this conversation. So if seem strange or rude, that's probably... He notices that Burt is staring at him as if he were an exotic insect. (cont'd) I've told you this before, haven't (nods) don't mean to mess with you. It's just so weird. You don't remember me at all, and we talked a bunch of times. Leonard shrugs. (cont'd) What's the last thing you remember? Leonard looks through Burt, thinking. My wife. (fascinated) What's it like? Like waking. Like you always just woke up. * That must suck. All... backwards. * Leonard raises his eyebrows in enquiry. * (cont'd) * Well, like.. you gotta pretty good idea * of what you're gonna do next, but no idea * what you just did. * (chuckles) * I'm the exact opposite. * (focuses on Burt) How long have been here? Couple days. So you're holding my calls? As requested. Leonard reaches into his pocket and pulls out his Polaroids Okay, but this guy's an exception. Leonard places the Polaroid of Teddy on the counter in front of Burt. Burt looks at it. (cont'd) Know this guy? Your friend, right? Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 What makes you think he's my friend? Seen you together, that's all. He's not my friend, Burt. But if he calls, or if he turns up here, then you give me a call in my room, okay? Sure. But nobody else, right? Just this guy. Leonard indicates the Polaroid of Teddy. (cont'd) hope my condition won't be a problem for you. Not if you remember to pay your bill. Leonard smiles and reaches into his wallet. of fingers rifling bills in a wallet. Leonard counts out some money and hands it to Burt. Burt takes the money, spotting something over Leonard's shoulder. (cont'd) That guy's here already. Burt the of Teddy which is sitting on the counter. Leonard picks up the photo and turns to see Teddy the glass door of the office. Leonard, in boxer shorts and plaid work shirt, rips the note from his thigh. The note says Leonard enters, sees a on the counter by the sink. On the bag is a handwritten message: Leonard looks into the bag, then pulls out a can of and a pack of He runs the hot water, steps back and lifts his foot onto the sink. He is awkward and uncomfortable. He notices an by the sink. Leonard sits on the bed applying to his thigh. The sits on the bedside table, steaming. Leonard starts awkwardly his right thigh. The and Leonard his leg. He looks at the phone, then reaches for the receiver. Leonard, in and flushes the urinal, then moves to the sink and starts washing his hands. He notices a written on the back of his hand. He stares at the message for a second, thoughtful, then tries to scrub the writing off his skin. To his surprise, it is Leonard looks at it, quizzical, then notices some markings on his wrist, pulling his sleeve back to get a better look. He can read the start of a message: Leonard is about to roll his sleeve up further when the restroom door opens and a enters. Leonard dries his hands, then exits the rest room. Leonard emerges .nto the waiting area of a crowded restaurant. He glances around, lost, then pulls out his Polaroids, flipping through them. Someone taps him on his shoulder and he turns to see the smiling face of a waiter. Sir? You left these at your table. Leonard looks down. The waiter hands him a and a 304). On the envelope is a handwritten message: Leonard looks at his Polaroid photograph of the outside of the Discount Inn motel. There is an address written beneath it (7254 Lincoln Street). * Thanks. Lincoln Street? The Waiter glances at his Polaroid. You wanna go east on sixth. (points) Just keep straight, all the way out of town, then take a right. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Leonard drives, consulting his Polaroid photos. Leonard, in hand, finds the door to room 304. Leonard enters, looks around as if for the first time. An anonymous motel room, except that tacked to one wall is a showing the layout of some streets, and stuck to the edges of the chart are with from each photograph to a spot on the map. Leonard inspects the photos. Some are buildings, some are people. All have the on the broad white strip underneath the image. Leonard gets Polaroids out of his pocket. The first one is of the Discount Inn. He it onto an already-squashed lump * of blue tack at the end of an drawn from a location on the outskirts of town. The second photo is a blurred shot of a Brunette turning in a doorway. The name is written under the picture. Leonard flips it over. On the back are two handwritten messages. The first one has been completely scribbled over, but the other one reads: Leonard nods, then sticks the photo to the chart. He steps back looking over the Polaroids one by one: Natalie, Burt, Discount Inn, Teddy. * Leonard sits at the desk and opens the He takes out a photocopy of a and a Both are in the name of but * when Leonard looks at the picture on the license, he recognizes the face. Leonard moves back to his wall chart, finds the Polaroid of Teddy and compares it to the license photo. This guy told me his name was Teddy. He turns the photo over and examines the white stop on the back. It says only: Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 Leonard smiles. He goes to the phone and dials the number on the Polaroid. couple of rings, then it's answered. Yup? Mr Gammell? Lenny, is that you? John Gammell? Lenny, it's Teddy. Look, stay there, okay? I'm gonna be right over. I'll be waiting. * Leonard hangs up, thinking. He looks at the writing on the back of his hand, then pulls back his sleeve to reveal the words: Leonard removes his jacket, then starts pulling off his shirt. He has in different styles of writing, some some The messages run in all directions, some some Leonard examines his tattoos, methodically. From Leonard's the most striking is an upside-down tattoo on his which says: On one it says: On the other Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Leonard pulls down his trousers. On his right crudely- lettered: And immediately below this, in elegant, neat lettering: Leonard takes out the and examines it. Holding the photo of Teddy and the registration document, Leonard checks off his (cont'd) (under his breath) White... male. First name... John. Last name... for Gammell. Drugs. License * plate. (checks document against tattoo on thigh) 13... 7... It's him. It's * actually him. Leonard looks coldly at Teddy's smiling image. (cont'd) found you, you fuck. Leonard turns the photo face down, takes a pen and writes: Leonard drops the pen. Thinks. He looks at his chest through the mirror and a backwards tattoo suddenly Leonard buttons his blue shirt, then writes on the back of Teddy's picture: Leonard sticks the photo of Teddy as he holds his up and checks that it is loaded. He sticks the in the back of his waistband. Leonard, in his boxers and plaid work shirt, shaving foam on thigh, drops his disposable razor and cautiously picks up the Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 Who is this? (listens) * He unbuttons his shirt. (cont'd) And we spoke earlier? don't remember * that. (listens) Well, yeah, but it's not amnesia. * remember everything from before my injury, just can't make any new memories. (listens) Leonard pulls his shirt off. There is a on his He looks do at the * (cont'd) So can't remember talking to you. What did we talk about? (nods) Sammy Jankis. Yeah, guess tell people about Sammy to help them understand. Sammy's story helps me understand my own situation. Leonard touches the tattoo on the back of his hand. (cont'd) Sammy Jankis wrote himself endless notes. But he'd get mixed up. I've got a more graceful solution to the memory problem. I'm disciplined and organized. use habit and routine to make my life possible. Sammy had no drive. No reason to make it work. Leonard can see his reflection in the mirror. He studies the tattoo across his chest: (cont'd) Me? gotta reason. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Leonard parks the Jaguar, gets out, stops outside the door to a restaurant, checking its name against a written on a * The note says: * He sticks the note in his pocket and pulls out his Polaroid photographs. He flips through them until he finds Natalie's. Leonard flips the picture over. On the back are two handwritten messages. The first one has been completely scribbled over, the second reads: Leonard enters, walking slowly down the aisle, looking at all the customers. He makes eye contact with a (brunette, 30's) sitting alone, wearing Her face betrays * nothing. Leonard walks past. She sighs and grabs the back of his jacket as he passes. Leonard spins around. Natalie. Leonard slips into the seat opposite her. Natalie is pretty, but has bruising around one eye, and a mark on her lip. You don't remember me. (friendly smile) Sorry, should have explained. You see, have this condition - You did explain, Lenny. Leonard shifts uncomfortably. Please call me Leonard. My wife called me Lenny. You told me. Leonard raises his eyebrows, then smiles. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Then probably told you how much hated it. Could you take off your sunglasses? * It's just hard for me - * Natalie takes them off to reveal her bruises. * Yeah. So you have information for me? Is that what your little note says? Yes. Must be tough living life according to a few scraps of paper. Mix up your laundry list and your grocery list, you'll be eating your underwear. Natalie smiles. (cont'd) But guess that's why you got those freaky tattoos. Leonard is surprised. It is tough. Almost impossible. I'm sorry can't remember you. It's not personal. Natalie's smile fades. I'm sorry. She takes a out of her handbag. (cont'd) do have information for you. You gave me a license plate number? had my friend at the trace it. Guess what name came up. Leonard shrugs. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 (cont'd) John Edward Gamme11. John Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 You know him? No. But the photo on his license looked familiar. think he's been in the bar before Natalie slides the envelope towards him, but stops short. (cont'd) This is a copy of his registration, license, photo and all. Are you sure you want this? Have told you what this man did? * Yes. Then you shouldn't have to ask. But even if you get your revenge, you won't remember it. You won't even know it's happened. (annoyed) * So I'll take a picture, get a tattoo. * (calms) * The world doesn't disappear when you * close your eyes, does it? My actions * still have meaning, even if can't * remember them. My wife deserves * vengeance, and it doesn't make any * difference whether know about it. * Tell me about her again. Why? Because you like to remember her. want to see you enjoy yourself. She was beautiful. Perfect to me - * Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Don't just recite the words. Close your eyes, remember her. Leonard smiles and shuts his eyes. Random images of a woman (30's, black hair, plain). Jump cuts of details: a smile, eating, tucking her hair behind her ear, pulling on a pair of trousers, watching shouting in anger. Sitting on the edge of the bed in her underwear, she as Leonard pinches her thigh. You can only feel details. Bits and pieces which you didn't bother to put into words. And extreme moments you feel even if you don't want to. Put it together and you get the feel of the person, enough to know how much you miss them, and how much you hate the person who took them away. Leonard opens his eyes. Natalie is looking at him. She nods and hands him the wrote an address in there, too. Might be useful. It's this abandoned place outside of town. guy know used to use it for his bigger deals. Deals? It's isolated. Sounds perfect? What do owe you? wasn't helping you for money. Sorry. It's not your fault. See, you have this condition... Leonard smiles. Natalie reaches into her purse and pulls out a (cont'd) Are you still at the Discount Inn? Room * 304? You left this at my place. Leonard pulls out a Polaroid of the Discount Inn. * The Discount Inn, yeah. * Natalie leaves the key and gets up from the table. They treating you alright? (smiling) Don't remember. You know what we have in common? Leonard shrugs. (cont'd) We're both survivors. Take care, Leonard. Leonard watches Natalie leave. He sits at the table, looking down at the and the 304). Leonard rises, and heads to the restroom. Leonard flushes the urinal, then moves to the sink and starts washing his hands. He notices a written on the back of his hand: He stares at the message for a second, thoughtful, then tries to scrub the writing off his skin. To his surprise, it is Leonard looks at it, quizzical, then notices some markings on his wrists, pulling his sleeve back to get a better look. He can read the start of a message: Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 Leonard is about to roll his sleeve up further when the restroom door opens and a enters. Leonard dries his hands, then exits the rest room. Leonard talks on the phone. He * resumes his thigh. met Sammy through work. (listens) Insurance. was an investigator. I'd * investigate claims to see which ones * were phony. * Leonard dips the razor into the steaming ice bucket. * (cont'd) had to see through people's bullshit. It was useful experience, because now it's my life. When meet someone, don't even know if I've met them before. have to look in their eyes and just figure them out. My job taught me that the best way to find out what someone knew was to let them talk. Montage: Leonard, wearing a and sitting opposite various in an interview situation. Throw in the occasional "why?" but just listen. And watch the eyes, the body * language. Leonard watches the people's movements carefully. We see close-ups off fiddling hands, neck scratching, etc. (cont'd) It's complicated. You might catch a sign but attach the wrong meaning to it. If someone touches their nose while they're talking, experts will tell you it means they're lying. It really means they're nervous, and people get nervous for all sorts of reasons. It's all about context. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 (cont'd) was good. Sammy was my first real challenge. The Jaguar pulls up. Leonard gets out and heads to the office. Burt is behind the counter reading a magazine. I'm sorry, think I'm checked in here, But I've misplaced my key. (looks up) Hi, Leonard. Burt puts his magazine down and gets up, sighing. (cont'd) Probably in the room. Burt, swinging a pass key on a chain, leads Leonard along the to room 21, then unlocks it. Leonard enters and the room. Burt picks his nails in the doorway. Leonard moves to the unmade bed. There is a pile of On the bedside table is an Next to it is a and a can of don't see my key. Burt looks up. He something. Shit. Wrong room. What? Burt tries to Leonard out of the room. Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 This isn't your room. You're in 304. Fucked up. This isn't my room? No, let's go. Then why is this my handwriting? Leonard picks a up off the floor. Handwritten on the side is a message: (cont'd) Better tell me what the fuck's going on. Burt looks uncomfortable. This was your room. You're up in 304 now. When was in here? Last week. Then rented you another one On top of this. Why? Business is slow. told my boss about You, about your condition. He told me to Try and rent you another room. Why didn't you clean it out? * (shrugs) You're still paying for it. It's still Your room. Leonard shakes his head, smiling. Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 So how many rooms am checked into in this dump? Just two. So far. * Leonard walks out past Burt. Well, at least you're being honest about cheating me. Yeah, well you're not gonna remember, anyway. You don't have to be that honest, Burt. Leonard. Leonard turns. Burt grins. (cont'd) Always get a receipt. I'm gonna write that down. Leonard fishes a piece of paper out of his pocket. There is a message on it which he reads. It says: Leonard looks up at Burt. (cont'd) What time is it? The Jaguar speeds along. Leonard checks the restaurant name against the note. He gets out his Polaroids, through them until he finds the one of Natalie. Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 Leonard walks through the restaurant, checking the patrons. He makes eye contact with Natalie, but walks past her table. She sighs and grabs the back of his jacket. Leonard (in boxers, bandaged arm) his thigh, talking * on the phone. I'd just become an investigator when came across Sammy. Mr Samuel Jankis - strangest case ever. Guy's 58, semi- retired accountant. He and his wife had been in this car accident... nothing too serious, but he's acting funny - he can't get a handle on what's going on. examines head. looks on. The doctors find some possible damaqe to the hippocampus, nothing conclusive. But Sammy can't remember anything for more than a couple minutes. He can't work, can't do shit, medical bills pile up, his wife calls the insurance company and get sent in. sits smoking, smiling at Leonard and My first big claims investigation - really check into it. Sammy can think just fine, but he can't make any new memories, he can only remember things for a few minutes. Sammy watches a commercial on Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 He'd watch but anything longer than a couple of minutes was too confusing, he couldn't remember how it began. He liked commercials. They were short. Sammy rolls a small between the palms of his hands. Mrs. Jankis rolls up her sleeve. Leonard watches as Sammy takes a and pushes the needle through the rubber of the bottle. The label is marked (V.O.)(cont'd) The crazy part was that this guy who couldn't follow the plot of "Green Acres" could do the most complicated things as long as he had learned them before the accident... Sammy the bottle and syringe, the insulin into the syringe, withdraws the needle, holds it up to check for bubbles, it delicately. ... and as long as he kept his mind on what he was doing. Sammy wipes a spot on Mrs. Jankis' arm with a swab, then gently the skin and confidently the needle. * Mrs Jankis winces. * Gentle. * Sammy looks up, worried. Mrs Jankis smiles at him. Sammy pushes * the plunger, withdraws the needle and presses the swab against * the skin, lookinq into Mrs Jankis' eyes and smiling back. * Mrs. Jankis opens the front door to Leonard. Leonard shakes hands with Sammy, who smiles at him in apparent recognition. The doctors assure me that there's a real condition called Korsokoff's syndrome; short-term memory loss, rare but legit. But every time see him catch a look of recognition. Just a slight look, but he says he can't remember me at all. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 (cont'd) can read people and I'm thinking bad * actor. Now I'm suspicious and order more tests. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Leonard at some blood on his thigh with toilet paper. His wife has to do everything. Sammy can only do simple stuff. He couldn't pick up any new skills at all, and that's how got him. Leonard's Jaguar pulls up at a red light. Suddenly Teddy is on the window. Lenny! thought you'd gone for good. What brings you back? Leonard looks at Teddy, sizing him up. Unfinished business. What made you think wasn't coming back? You said you were leaving town. Things change. So see. It's good to see you. My name's Teddy. Guess I've told you about my condition. (grins) Only every time see ya! Come on, I'll buy you lunch. Teddy pours ketchup all over his steak. Leonard plays with his food. Not hungry? (shrugs) It's my condition. never know if I've already eaten, so always just eat small amounts. You don't have to remember to be hungry. It's weird, but if you don't eat for a while then your body stops being hungry. You get sort of shaky but you don't realize you haven't eaten. Have told you about Sammy Jankis? Yeah, yeah. heard enough about him. Tell me about John You still think he's here, right? Who? The guy you're looking for, Johnny That's why you haven't left. Am right? Leonard shrugs. Teddy licks his fingers and frowns. (cont'd) Leonard, you need to be very careful. Why? Well, the other day you made it sound like you thought somebody might be trying to set you up. Get you to kill the wrong guy. Yeah, well go on facts, not recommendations, okay? Lenny, you can't trust a man's life to your little notes and pictures. Why? Because you're relying on them alone. You Don't remember what you've discovered or how. Your notes might be unreliable. Memory's unreliable. Teddy snorts. (cont'd) No, really. Memory's not perfect. It's not even that good. Ask the police, eyewitness testimony is unreliable. The cops don't catch a killer by sitting around remembering stuff. They collect facts, make notes, draw conclusions. Facts, not memories: that's how you investigate. know, it's what used to do. Memory can change the shape of a room or the color of a car. It's an interpretation, not a record. Memories can be changed or distorted and they're irrelevant if you have the facts. You really want to find this guy? He took away the woman love and he took away my memory. He destroyed everything; my life and my ability to live. You're living. Just for revenge. That's what keeps me going. It's all have. Teddy considers this. We'll find him. Where are you staying? Leonard reaches into his pocket and takes out a Polaroid. Discount Inn. Don't know what room; haven't got my key. Probably left it in your room. Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 The Jaguar pulls up. Leonard gets out and heads to the office. Leonard enters. Burt is behind the counter reading a magazine. I'm sorry, think I'm checked in here, but I've misplaced my key. (looks up) Hi, Leonard. Leonard (in boxers, bandaged arm shaving foam on thigh, * strides the row, talking on the phone and gesticulating with a disposable razor. So Sammy can't learn any new skills. But find something in my research: Conditioning. Sammy should still be able to learn through repetition. It's how you learn stuff like riding a bike, things you don't think about, you just get better through practice. Call it muscle memory, whatever, but it's a completely different part of the brain from the short-term memory. So have the doctors test Sammy's response to conditioning... Sammy sits at a table. sits opposite pointing out various sitting on the table. Just pick up any three objects. (amused) That's a test? Where were you guys when did my Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Sammy an object and gestures to the Doctor for applause. Sammy goes for a second object, but gets a which makes him recoil in pain. * (cont'd) Ah! What the fuck?! Sammy looks at the Doctor. It's a test, Sammy. Some of the objects were electrified, They'd give him a small shock. They kept repeating the test, always with the same objects electrified. The point was to see if he could learn to avoid the electrified objects. Not by memory, but by instinct. Leonard opens his eyes, naked in bed. He looks around, confused. With a he realizes that someone else is in the bed: a with her back to him. Leonard leans right over her to get a look at her face. It is The on her eye and the on her lip are worse than before. She her eyes and is startled by the sight of Leonard's hovering face. Sorry. It's only me. Leonard down. Natalie wakes up fully and relaxes. Sleep okay? Yeah. You? Natalie shrugs. She looks at her bedside clock. Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 gotta be someplace. She gets out of bed, wearing pajamas. Leonard swings his legs out of the bed and realizes that he is wearing trousers and socks. He looks at his tattoos, as if he has never seen them before. (cont'd) Pretty weird. She is smiling at him in the mirror. Leonard smiles, shrugs. Useful. You never write a phone number on your hand? (through mirror) * should be able to talk to my friend * about the license plate today. * Yeah, the license plate... * (smiles) * John G's license plate number. You have * it tattooed on your thigh. * Natalie leaves the room. Leonard pulls down his trousers to * reveal two tattoos: * Leonard runs his finger over fact 6, then pulls his trousers * up and looks around the room. He spots his suit jacket * hanging over the back of a chair. He checks the pockets, pulls out his Polaroids, flips through them: a Jaguar, the Discount Inn, Natalie. He flips Natalie's picture over and looks at the back. There are two messages, but the first one has been completely scribbled over. The other one reads: Leonard stuffs the photos back into his pocket, grabs a white shirt of f the chair and pulls it on. Natalie comes back in and starts to apply her makeup. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 If it's registered in this state it'll * just take seconds to pull up his license and registration. I'll call when I've spoken to him. Why don't we just arrange a meeting now? * I'm not too good on the phone. Natalie takes her eye pencil and writes a on a * Leonard puts his jacket on. Natalie offers * him the note. It says: Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 (cont'd) (leading) It's great that you would... that you're helping me like this... (smiles) I'm helping you because you helped me. Leonard nods. (cont'd) So will you remember me next time you seo me? Leonard shakes his head and reaches for the note. Natalie grabs his lapel and pulls him down to her, kissing him gently on the mouth. (cont'd) think you will. (smiles) I'm sorry. Leonard heads for the door. (amused) Lenny, before you go, can have my shirt back please? She tosses him his blue shirt. Leonard looks down at the white shirt which he has put on. It is way too small. The Jaguar pulls up to a red light. Suddenly Teddy is banging on the window. Lenny! thought you'd gone for good. What brings you back? Leonard (in boxers, bandaged arm) the room, shaving * foam on leg, razor in one hand, phone in the other. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 They kept testing Sammy for months, always with the same objects carrying the electrical charge... Sammy sits across the testing table from the Doctor. Sammy goes for a and in pain from a Ah! What the fuck?! It's a test, Sammy. but Sammy is He goes for an object and is Ah! What the fuck?! It's a test, Sammy. Yeah? Test this you fucking quack. Sequence of of Sammy extending his and in shock from the objects. Even with total short-term memory loss, Sammy should've learned to instinctively stop picking up the wrong objects. All previous cases of short-term memory loss had responded to conditioning in some way. Sammy didn't respond at all. It was enough to suggest his condition was psychological not physical. (cont'd) We turned down his claim on the grounds that he wasn't covered for mental illness. Sammy's wife got stuck with the bills and got a promotion for rejecting a big claim. Leonard looks into the mirror. (cont'd) Conditioning didn't work for Sammy, so he became helpless. But it works for me. live the way Sammy couldn't. Habit and Conditioning. Acting on instinct. Leonard pulls up in his Jaguar, gets out, rings the front doorbell. It is opened by Natalie. Natalie, right? Natalie nods, wary of Leonard's barely concealed anger. Leonard thrusts a Polaroid photo in her face. (cont'd) Who the fuck is Dodd? The photo is of a who is and On the back of the photo: Natalie takes the picture and examines it. Guess don't have to worry about him anymore. (snaps) Who is he? What have you got me into? Natalie looks up and down the street. Come inside. Natalie shows Leonard in. Blue Revisions - 8/27/99 Calm down. You're not into anything. It was my problem, you offered no help. It's got nothing to do with your investigation. That's the problem! How can find John when don't know what's going on?! How did you get me into this?! Leonard, you offered to help when you saw what this guy did to me. She gestures at the on her face. How do know he did that to you? came to you straight after he did it. showed you what he'd done and asked for your help. So just take your word? Yes. (sighs) Something feels wrong. think someone's fucking with me. Trying to get me to kill the wrong guy. Did you? What? Kill him. Course not. Natalie waves the Polaroid at him. This has nothing to do with you. You helped me out, and I'm grateful. She tries to rip the picture. Leonard watches her try. The plastic is too strong. You have to burn them. Natalie scrunches it up and throws it down. Leonard and Natalie sit down on the couch. You decided to help me. Trust yourself. Trust your own judgment. You can question everything, you can never know anything for sure. There are things you know for sure. Such as? know the feel of the world. (reaches forward) know how this wood will sound when knock. (raps knuckles on coffee table) know how this glass will feel when pick it up. (handles glass) Certainties. You think it's knowledge, but it's a kind of memory, a kind you take for granted. can remember so much. (runs hands over objects) know the feel of the world, (beat) and know her. Your wife? She's gone and the present is trivia, which can scribble down as notes. Natalie stares at Leonard, thinking. Relax a little, okay? Take off your jacket. Leonard takes his jacket off and places it on the back of the couch, patting the pockets as he does so. It's not easy to be calm when - Just relax. She reaches for his arm and unbuttons his cuff, revealing the end of Leonard's tattoos. (cont'd) You don't seem the type. She pushes back the sleeve, trying to read the tattoo. Leonard watches her. * (cont'd) Come on. She starts to unbutton his shirt. He watches. Natalie gasps as she opens Leonard's shirt and pulls it back over his shoulders. She tilts her head, trying to read the different messages. (cont'd) It's backwards. * She pulls him up and turns him around in front of the mirror * to read the backwards tattoo across his chest. * Natalie touches the blank area of skin above Leonard's heart. * (cont'd) * Here? * Leonard looks down at the blank patch, then at Natalie, * vulnerable, confused. * It's... it must be for when I've found him. * She looks at Leonard. Leonard shrugs. Natalie studies * Leonard's chest, avoiding his eyes. * Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 (cont'd) I've lost somebody. I'm sorry. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Natalie picks up a photograph from off a messy desk in the corner. She shows it to Leonard. The picture shows Natalie smiling and hugging a smirking Natalie * looks up at Leonard to see his reaction. His name was Jimmy. What happened? He went to meet somebody and didn't come back. Who did he go to meet? Natalie studies Leonard. guy called Teddy. Leonard does not react to the name. What do the police think? They don't look too hard for guys like Jimmy. Natalie puts the photo down. She reaches out to Leonard, * spreading her fingers over the blank part of his chest. * (cont'd) When you find this guy, this John what are you going to do? Kill him. Maybe can help you find him. know a * lot of people. Natalie, eyes closed, has her head on Leonard's chest. He is shirtless, lying on top of the covers. Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 don't even know how long she's been * gone. It's like I've woken up in bed and she's not here because she's gone to the bathroom or something. But somehow just * know that she'll never come back to bed. * lie here, not knowing how long I've been alone. If could just reach out and * touch her side of the bed could know * that it was cold, but can't. have no * idea when she left. * Natalie's eyes are open. (cont'd) know can't have her back, but want * to be able to let her go. don't want to wake up every morning thinking she's still here then realizing that she's not. want time to pass, but it won't. How * can heal if can't feel time? Leonard bends his head around to see if Natalie is awake. She closes her eyes. Leonard gingerly slides from underneath her and moves silently out of the bedroom. Leonard enters the dark room. He goes to the couch and picks up his shirt and his jacket. He notices the photograph which Natalie showed him on top of some papers on a desk in the corner. He holds it in a shaft of light from the streetlamp outside, studying the photo of Natalie and Jimmy. Natalie, eyes open, slides her hand over to where Leonard was lying, feeling his residual warmth. ii 61 - <> Leonard has his Polaroid photograph of Natalie out. He takes a pen out of his jacket, rests the photo against the wall in a patch of light and writes on the back, underneath the message which has been scribbled out: Pink Revisions - 9/7/99 Memento : Christopher Nolan Jonathan Nolan : Drama