Written by Steven Zaillian & Aaron Sorkin There will always be people who are ahead of the curve, and people who are behind the curve. But knowledge moves the curve. - Bill James Static shots: deserted locker room. Empty showers. Cinder-block tunnels lit with wire-encased lamps like in a coal mine. watch a game on a October 15, 2001 We begin to hear disembodied cheering crowds and the faint voice of an announcer - ... nobody on, two and two to Saenz - who has just three at bats in the series, and none of them hits - as he settles back in At the end of a tunnel, the A's empty dugout. The empty diamond. Just a couple of the floodlights are on. - Rivera looks in for the sign, he has it, the pitch, Saenz swings and - The announcer's voice and excited crowd abruptly cut off. In silence, we regard the 60,000 empty seats that wrap around the playing field ... but then see that, in fact, it's 59,999 empty seats. There's a lone figure seated in one of them. The sound snaps back on: - a ground out to second, Thom, is not what the A's were looking for from Saenz - down by two in the ninth - The lone man in the stadium has a radio and a bag of peanuts. He seems at peace as he looks down on the empty diamond - a peace only slightly belied, perhaps, by the baseball he absently turns in a hand. He switches the radio back on - Eric Byrnes has emerged from the dugout to bat for Menechino - He turns it off again. Calmly eats a peanut. Waits. Switches the radio back on - - the A's are down to their last strike and this Yankee crowd is on its feet - Rivera squints for the sign, he has it, delivers and - Again, at the crucial moment, he cuts the radio. Waits just a few moments. Turns the radio back on - It is bedlam in New York. The Yankees - down two games to none - have come back to win three, and the Division Series. The outcome of the series seems to have no effect on Billy. He simply gets up, switches off the radio, and climbs the steps to leave. But somehow we still faintly hear, as he comes past shuttered concession stands toward an exit, the voice of one of the announcers - This is an exceptional feat not only for New York, Thom, but for Oakland - though not the kind you can be proud of: Only once before has a team lost a Division Series after winning the first two games - It's coming from a small television a night security guard is watching. But when he sees Billy approaching, he quickly shuts it off. It's okay, Joe, you can leave it on. It's no big deal. No, it's okay, don't need to watch it. The guard's eyes consider the baseball Billy absently turns in his hands - How's Meg? She's good, thanks. - and the glass window of the bar behind him - And the boys? They're good. Everybody's good. That's good. The security guard waits for the baseball to sail through the glass, but it doesn't happen. Night. Night, Billy. It was a great season. lone car sits in the parking lot in front of the Coliseum. We They had three times your payroll, Billy. Yeah... You're not watching them celebrate, right? Car's off. Billy sits in the dark on his phone. No. That would be, uh-- Pointless? Self-destructive? Masochistic? Are you asking me to pick one? What you should be doing is thinking about what an amazing job you did and how great you are. I'll be honest, right this minute I'm not thinking about either of those things. You take a team with that payroll to the playoffs? You take the Yankees to a fifth game? I'm not even sure the better team won. They were down two-love and then beat us three in a row. Trust me, the better team won. presses a button on his portable radio and is hit with sound of sports talk radio-- --while embarrassing the entire city and making a mockery of their fans. I'm sick of this. Let's go away. That sounds good. Three enormous looming likenesses of the Oakland A's premiere players on floodlit banners--Jason Giambi, Johnny Damon, Jason Isringhausen. Someplace they don't have a baseball team. How about Oakland? Okay, here are the rules for tonight. You can do anything you want but you can't give any quotes to the press, go on the internet or hurt my car, we have a deal? Yeah. They had three times your payroll, Billy. From the radio we've been hearing shards of "--an unprecedented choke--", "--get rid of Billy Beane--", "-- Billy Beane knows nothing about baseball--". Yeah. How about Hawaii? I'll make a reservation someplace. The place with the turtles. Billy gets out of the car. Great. I'm on my way. Billy chucks the radio away. Gets back in the car, puts it in gear. -- Blur of shapes and colors as we move through a crush of travelers to a Hawaiian Airlines counter where Billy and Tara check luggage. Billy's got a cell phone to his ear. Is it Boston? You're talking to Boston? What are they offering? What does it matter to you? What?! mean -- what does it matter since whatever it is you can't afford it. You don't know that. don't? You need to hurry. don't know that -- since don't know what they're offering. What did she say? She said we had to hurry up. Scott? Scott? The call's been disconnected. Another corridor, as Billy and Tara head toward security. Billy on the phone with Boras, continuing where they left off -- What did they offer? They offered seven and a quarter. Just to be clear -- they offered seven and a quarter. Yes. As opposed to you said seven and a quarter and they're thinking about it. No, they offered seven and a quarter and I'm thinking about it. (nothing from Billy) And you're thinking -- what. I'm thinking don't want to lose Damon, but don't pay my whole infield seven million dollars. We're losing Damon? For seven and a half, Billy, you can keep Johnny Damon and we can be done thinking. have to go, my plane is boarding. Wait, don't hang up. Don't hang up -- Billy drops the phone in a plastic container, steps through the metal detector like it's a stick-up, grabs the phone again. Is that phone still on? What's the difference? Faradie. Can his phone be on? Sir, you need to turn your phone off. It's already through. Billy grabs his phone from the other side. Seven point five? Seven point five. I'll talk to Steve. Talk to Steve. Boras hangs up. Try to relax. (hitting speed dial on another number) small emergency is starting to develop. Try. Try to relax. You look fantastic today. Hello? Arn. Billy. We gotta talk about Giambi. Wait, we're losing Giambi, too? can't talk about that now. can't talk about anything now. We can talk now. We're talking now. We can't talk now. I'm at a family thing. I'll call you Monday. Who are you talking to -- the Yankees? I'm talking to everybody. But not today. I'm not in today. I'm hanging up. Don't hang up. He hung up. You found Giambi. Billy dials another number -- thousand dollars says you don't get on the plane. Arn Tellem's office. Denise. Billy. These guys are auctioning off my team one player at a time. He's not in today, Billy. know, just want to send him flowers. Flowers? Flowers? Where would send them? To who? To Arn. You want to send him flowers? You're not going to be anywhere near Hawaii. To where he is now, yes. Beth Israel Temple, Beverly Hills. The airport is as close as you got. Thank you, Tara. Denise. I'm Tara. know. need a day. One day. I'll fly out tomorrow. It's gonna be more than one day. We're losing Isringhausen too? Only if my luck stays exactly the same. It's like the bell rang but you're still getting hit in the head. (hands him tickets) Just in case. I'm sorry. Have fun out there. I'm picking up a guy at the breakfast buffet. left-handed reliever if you can. The ceremony is in progress as Billy arrives, plucks a yarmulke from a basket, sets it on his head and finds a place in the back row for himself and his carry-on. He listens to the boy's monotone-reading of verses. He fidgets. Taps his foot. Checks his watch. Turns to the person down the row and whispers -- How much longer you think? What? Nah, it's okay. As attendees exit the ceremony and enter the adjacent banquet hall, Billy has cornered Arn Tellem, picking up right where he left off three hours ago in Oakland on the Arn, don't wanna lose him. don't wanna lose him. This is my nephew's Bar Mitzvah. He did well with his Torah portion thought. Thank you. What did they offer? He's not staying in Oakland, Billy. What did the Yankees offer him? It's New York; you've got to give a player a reason not to play there. What did they offer? 17 million. No way. Yeah. don't pay my whole infield 17 million dollars. know, know... For how long? 17 a year for seven years. Billy stares, completely nonplussed... hundred and twenty million dollars? Hundred and nineteen. You gotta get Steve to let you spend some money. That's pretty good advice, should do that. Steve doesn't get it. This isn't a charity raffle. Arn. get it, he gets it, Jason gets it and you certainly get it. I'll talk to him. And you're losing Isringhausen, too. Ya think? I've gotta get back. Hey mazel tov, Arn. Thank you. Good luck. Arn walks away. Billy looks to his right to see a 12 year old kid standing right next to him. Are you Billy Beane? Yes. That was a pretty serious choke. Are you from around here? Yeah. You a Dodger fan? Yeah. Billy hands the kid his scotch -- Here, drink a lot of this. -- and walks away. Billy tries, but is having trouble sitting still as he talks with Steve Schott - the A's owner - around 60 - a college player way back when. He's a successful home builder now. Models of developments lie around. We're losing Damon and Giambi. We can't survive losing Damon and Giambi. Isringhausen's gone, too, don't you think? can win without a closer. can't without power. So negotiate with them. have. They want more. So offer them a little more. have. They want more than a little more. Like what. What'll it cost - say - to keep Giambi? 17 for how many (years) - One. For one year? Billy nods. Steve smiles. And Billy knows what it means. It means, That makes it easy - there's nothing more to discuss on the matter. have confidence you'll find a way to make it work without them. can't. Sure you can. Billy. What are we? The Taj Mahal? We're a small-market team. Obviously, we can't afford Giambi at such a (price) - Fine. He's gone. But might - for a bit more than last year - be able to keep Damon in (Oakland) - (Steve is shaking his need more money, Steve. Billy... can't compete against a hundred and twenty million dollar payroll with a forty million dollar payroll. We just won 102 games with a forty million dollar payroll. With Giambi and Damon. We wouldn't have without them. Silence. Then - You can't ask me to be okay with losing. That's too much to ask a professional athlete. It's too much, Steve! You're not a professional athlete! You're a professional We're a small market team. You're a small market And I'm asking you to be okay with not spending money don't have. And I'm asking you to take a breath and shake off the loss. And then I'm asking you to get back in a room with your people and figure out how you're going to replace these guys with the money do have. Got it? can go from milquetoast to ruthless in a blink and he just did. Billy's on his cell again as he crosses the Bay Bridge. Scott. Billy. What was that beep? It's just my phone, it's about to die, but this'll be quick - listen - I'm losing my favorite prospects, but got you the seven point five. That's great. I'll get right back to No. No, you won't. got it for you and we're done. Damon stays in Oakland. Billy - have to talk to Johnny - obviously. It's my fiduciary (duty) - Whose number is that - seven point five. Mine? No, it's mine - It's yours. So make your call, but don't play me, Scott. We have a deal. won't be a stalking horse. The word stays in the - dictionary. The door pushes open and Billy comes in after his very long day. He sets his carry-on bag down. Takes out his dead cell phone and plugs it into a charger. Calls Tara on the land line. Sorry, hon. I'm gonna need another day. Take your time, do your thing. There are a lot of cute guys here. You've got my suitcase? No, the airline sent it to Prague. Why? Well, we left out of Oakland, honey... and think the baggage handlers knew it was yours. (beat, can this get any worse?) Okay. Billy's cell phone rings -- gotta take this. Wish you weren't insane. Miss you. She hangs up. Billy hangs up and switches to his cell -- Yeah. Billy. Scott. just got off the phone with Dan. No, you didn't. Yeah, was surprised he even called me. Because he had said -- No, have Johnny for seven-point-five or he's not playing anywhere, because that's the deal -- Boston just upped it to seven-seven-five. Billy's hand is already in motion to smash the phone, but in a herculean feat of self disciple, he manages to restrain himself before impact. You there? We had a deal. We have a deal. If it's eight million. Why am the ugliest girl at the dance, Scott? Why do get the feeling I'm always gonna be a quarter million short? I'm just doing my job for my client. That's all I'm doing. No, you played me. And you're playing me now. Congratulations, asshole. You win. Billy hangs up on him. Billy and his scouting department - ten men older than him - all former players and tobacco chewers still, each with his own can of Copenhagen and wastebasket - sitting around a large underground cinder block "war room" whose most extravagant appointment is a Mr. Coffee. Two large white-boards dominate a wall, covered with magnetic strips with players' names on them. On the left board - every player in the A's organization. On the other, even larger board - every player that may be of interest to them from the other organizations. It's the most complex chess board you will ever see. But what can be easily discerned are the obvious holes in the A's team - the star players they are about to lose - their names set apart from the positions they're vacating: Jason Giambi Johnny Damon Jason Isringhausen Alright, guys... we had a great year. We won 102 games and we only came a buck short in New York. Now the bad news... we've got three big holes to fill. Let's start with who we like for Giambi. We'll go around the room. Who you like, Matty? like Geronimo. (approval from the Guy's an athlete. This guy is big, fast and talented. Six foot four. Top of my list. Clean cut, good face. Good jaw. He's the real deal. Five tools, good lookin'. Can he hit? He's a tools guy. Can he hit? He's got a great swing. Natural swing. So you're saying he can't hit. He can hit. The ball explodes off his bat. It's exciting. When he hits it sounds like he's droppin' a firecracker at his feet. Down in the pisser you can hear that sound. Sounds like Mays, Mantle, Aaron... That's not what asked. asked can he hit. He's a good hitter. If he's a good hitter, why doesn't he hit good? He needs a little work. He'll be able to hit. He could be a great hitter. Right... we put him up against big league competition and suddenly he'll be able to hit. Grady moves on -- Artie, who do we like? Billy backs off, incredulous as the scouts prattle on -- like Perez. He swings like a man. He swings like a man who swings at too much. There's some work needs to be done. admit it. He needs to be reworked a little. But he's noticeable. He's notable? No, he's noticeable. You notice him. He's got an ugly girlfriend. What's that mean? Ugly girlfriend means no confidence. Alright. That's true. agree with Art. like the way he walks into a room. Kid's so confident his dick gets there two minutes before he does. Passes the eye candy test. He's got the looks, he's ready to play the part. He just needs some playing time. I'm just saying, his girlfriend's a 6. Billy, if you want to talk about another Giambi, this guy could be it. Enough. Billy raises a book above the table, drops it with a dull Is that a suggestion, Billy? Guys, stop. You're talking like this is business as usual. It's not. We're trying to solve the problem. Not like this. You're not even looking at the problem. We not only have a very clear understanding of the problem we now face, but everyone in this room has faced similar problems countless times before. Good. What's the problem? The problem is that we've lost 3 key players that we now have to replace. Uh-uh. What's the problem? The problem is the same as it always is; we've got to put a team together with what we've got. Uh-uh. What's the problem? We've got 38 home runs to replace, 120 rbi's, 47 doubles... Okay, stop. The problem we're trying to solve is that this is an unfair game. There are rich teams, poor teams, 50 feet of crap and then there's us. And now we've been gutted. We're organ donors to the rich. The Red Sox took our kidneys and the Yankees took our heart. And now I'm listening to the same old shit about having a good body and being a tools guy like you're looking for Fabio. Is there another first baseman like Giambi? Is there? Everyone mumbles "no." Then stop looking for one because what we'll surely wind up with is the McNuggets version of Giambi. Look, we're gonna find 25 guys, put `em through player development, teach `em how to play Oakland baseball. This is no time to push the panic button. This is the way we've been doing it for 150 years. Let us do our job. If we try to play like the Yankees in here, we're not going to be able to play with them out there. That's fortune cookie wisdom. No, it's just regular wisdom. Who's Fabio? Okay, Billy. Clearly you have something on your mind. Bill James. You're not serious? We're not playing fantasy baseball, Billy. Those aren't new ideas, they disproved that years ago. Bill James was a night security guard at the Stokely Van Camp Pork and Beans Factory. He thinks differently than anyone in baseball. He's not in baseball. He's in pork and beans. Don't attack the man, attack the argument. (to the room) think he just won the argument. Chuckles. What if we've been wrong this whole time about what ingredients manufacture a win? What if this whole time we thought it was the chicken that made the chicken soup taste good when really it was the onions that made the chicken soup taste good? Onions are a lot cheaper than chicken, you see what I'm saying? don't have the first idea what you're saying. We gotta start over. We gotta rethink this thing. We gotta look where others aren't looking. With all due respect, we've been doing this for a long time. That doesn't mean you're doing it right. Do you watch nature docs? You know what happens to the runt of the litter? He dies. I'm open to any solution, as long as it's not what the other guys are doing. Now, I'm going to Cleveland to poach an outfielder named Brandon Garcia -- Hold on -- You're going to Cleveland for a double-A guy? Billy, I've seen Garcia. He's got a bad body. It's not a pretty sight. Kid wears a large pair of underwear. That is a big boy. He's not just big, but kind of doughy. fleshy kind of body. Oh, you mean like Babe Ruth. He's no Babe Ruth. When he walks, Billy, his thighs stick together. There's enough friction there to start a bonfire. If you saw him, I'm telling you, you wouldn't want to go to Cleveland. Billy, can make a suggestion? If you could get Ricardo Rincon... he'd be worth the trip to Cleveland. That would solve our left handed reliever problem. Unanimous approval from the scouts -- Really? Yeah. should get Rincon? Definitely. Okay. I'll also come back with Joe DiMaggio and Ty Cobb. And who would like a Fabergé egg? Guys, you aren't hearing me -- in what universe can we afford Rincon? I'm asking you guys to look at this game differently than you've ever looked at it before. I'm going to Cleveland. And when come back, want you to tell me something don't already know. want to question everything. We've got to rethink this game. As he exits -- And Grady? Nobody cares about a 102 win season. Billy storms out. What's a Fabergé egg? ball sails well over the heads of the in the outfield who are shagging the batting practice flies. The in the parking lot have seen Billy play before and so know just how far back to stand in order to shag a ball. BILLY's at the plate, crushing pitches from a pitching machine. CRACK!--he sends another one sailing over the heads of the cluster of scouts. tanned and glistening with sweat, looks over to see watching him from behind the backstop. They're looking at him like he's Elvis and tries to nonchalant it but can't help a small smile to himself This is the guy. He's got a great path. love the extension in his swing and the backspin he creates. That's some amazing power right there, huh? Good approach, great balance. How's he compare to the others around the country? He's number one. Let's just hope he's still there when we pick. This guy'll go in the first round. The scouts put the players through their paces -- sprinting, fielding... and are talking to who's toweling off and is still a little aware of all the people who are standing nearby to watch the birth of a star. Billy. I'm Sabatini, Area Scout, New York Mets. Can we get a couple minutes of your time, find out more about you? Of course. I'd like to introduce you to Tom Martinez. Very impressive performance today. In my job as the national cross-checker for the New York Mets, see the top 200 players in the United States. It's been a while since I've seen a five tools guy, the complete package. Your throwing ability, your fielding skills... Ed told me you had power but had no idea it was of the light tower variety. hope you're as interested in professional baseball as we are in acquiring you in the upcoming draft. Well, sir, I'd need to talk it out with my parents, decide if baseball is something want to do full time. have a scholarship to play football at Stanford. Well, Billy, we're certainly looking forward to meeting your folks and talking to them as well. And we believe in college, but that's something you can do in the winter months. You need to know the sky's the limit with your ability. You could be a superstar before you've even graduated. But to get to that level, you need to work with our people. Pro-ball is where you need to be to develop the skills God gave you. Unlike the A's, this is a franchise that can spend actual money on players, and on nice lobby furniture, which is where Billy sits, staring at a classic baseball photo that hangs in the lobby. Mr. Beane? Mark's ready to see you now. Billy's counterpart in Cleveland--Indians General Manager and about three weeks into the job--sits behind his desk in a tie and shirt sleeves like Billy. Joining them in the room are including So Billy, what are you looking for? 50 million in additional payroll. Try Giambi. Ouch. 120 million. should've been a hitter. Where's Steve in all this? Supportive. Excited about rebuilding the team. Bonds is available. Yeah, how do afford the rest of the field? So what are you looking for? want to help out. guess you've touched the bottom of the sports industry when your opponent is need a lefty reliever and want Ricardo Rincon. Not going to happen. Not even a discussion? Come on Billy, even if you could afford him we're not about to let him go. Why's that? You've got the Venezuelan kid in North Carolina you're bringing up. We dished him to Detroit. Keep up. Well there goes my other idea. What else you thinking Billy? You have any outfielders should be looking at? To replace Damon? Yeah. That's a tough one Billy. Yeah. Who do you got? The guys you might be able to afford? Hollins, Garcia... Coste. Tell me about Garcia. To replace Damon?! Is he healthy? He had a back thing, some minor surgery, but he's okay. Petey? He'll be good by Spring Training. He'll do. can give you Guthrie for him if you kick in some cash. Mark Guthrie? As Shapiro and gang review Guthrie's stats, Billy notices Peter whispering to the guy next to him. Shapiro looks around the room at the guys who don't object. How much are you thinking? approaches Shapiro and whispers and steps away. Sorry about that. So... Garcia is going to be a no. What else are you thinking about? Let's make it work, I'll go straight up with you, Garcia for Guthrie, no kicker. Shapiro looks to Bruce, Peter is covering his mouth with his hand but we can just barely hear him whisper the word 'no'. Bruce subtly shakes his head to Mark. Sorry Billy, who else you interested in? Peter sits at his cubicle absorbed in his computer until he notices Billy hovering over him. Hey. Hi. Who are you? My name is Peter Brand. What do you do? I'm special assistant to Mark Shapiro. So what do you do? (pointing at co- Hey, mind your own business. What do you do? Mostly player evaluation right now. Why does Mark listen to you? Actually he rarely does. He just did. don't think he was really listening to me in there per se. Really? Yeah, think he was listening to Bruce. Who are you? Peter Brand. don't give a rat's ass about your name. Nothing from Peter. What happened in there? I'm not sure what you're asking me. What did you tell Butch? Huh? Oh Bruce? told him like Garcia. Why? Probably for the same reasons you do. Meaning what? He's undervalued. You were smart to go after him. What makes him undervalued? Peter is stuck. He can't bring himself to say anything. After a long beat Billy nods to him in a way that seems to say, understand, it's okay'. Come on. Billy makes a strong gesture indicating Peter to follow. Which he does. They exit the offices into Where you from Peter? Maryland. Where did you go to school? Yale. hate Yale. Why? Kid from Yale once blocked a trade was trying to make. What'd you study? Economics. What are you doing in baseball? love baseball. I'm just curious. Why were you so cagey in there? work for a different team. know, but I'm the first person in baseball who's ever talked to you this long. Right? Why is Garcia undervalued? Okay, truthfully, it might not be so easy to explain. Really? Why's that Peter? We might not see the game the same way. Oh really? What do you mean by that? You've spent your life in baseball and don't have a very traditional view of the game. Hey Pete, just say it. I'm not about to beat you up. Say what you've always wanted to say to a Baseball thinking is medieval. It's stuck in the Dark Ages. have a more scientific view of the game. Keep going, Peter. There is an epidemic failure within the game to understand what's really happening. And it leads people who run major league teams to misjudge their players and mismanage their teams. They're still asking the wrong questions. People who run baseball teams still think in terms of buying players. Sorry to say that. Peter, don't apologize for what you believe. The goal shouldn't be to buy players, what you want to buy is wins. To buy wins, you buy runs. You're trying to replace Johnny Damon. The Red Sox look at Johnny Damon and they see a star worth seven point five million a year. When look at Johnny Damon, see an imperfect understanding of where runs come from. The back of Johnny Damon's A's jersey as he walks to the plate to adoring Oakland fans. His batting average is ignorable. What matters is his on base percentage- swings at the first pitch and knocks it into left field for a single. He leads off first-- - which in 2001 was .324. That's 10 points lower than league average, and 17 points lower than Garcia's. On the next pitch, takes off for second-- True, he stole some bases. But attempted steals in general have to succeed 70% of the time before they even start to contribute to run totals. In 2001 he cost you runs. DAMON's tagged out at second. He's got a good glove. He's a decent leadoff hitter. He steals bases. But he's not worth the seven point five million Boston is paying him. You're lucky to have him off your payroll, it opens all kinds of interesting possibilities. You read Bill James, Pete? Yes. These ideas and this approach to the game aren't all new. In fact, some of them have been around for two decades. If this approach has been around for so long, why isn't anybody in baseball doing them? That's a much more difficult question than how to win baseball games. Once you begin to pull at that string, your understanding of the world might begin to unravel. The elevator door closes. Billy's in coach, staring at the night through the window, lost in thought. Billy's mother and father escort Martinez and Mets Head Scout Roger Jongewaard into the kitchen. Billy? They're here. Billy... Good to see you again. Obviously you're a very special player. We'd like to compliment you on your high school career, and we're looking forward to you being a part of the Mets family. Jongewaard sits at the kitchen table, speaking more to Billy's parents than Billy himself -- There's good -- and there's premium. Your son is premium. He has it all -- power, speed, the arm. The Look -- and I'm never wrong about that. Which is why this is a premium number. He sets a contract on the table. Clipped to its top- sheet is a check. On its left-hand corner is the Mets insignia; on the right, the amount: $125,000. They all see it. lot of money in 1980. Silence. Then -- Billy's been offered a scholarship to Stanford. know. And that's a great accomplishment. I'm sure you're very proud of him. So he can accept that, go there, and then - Jongewaard is already shaking his head no. understand how important college is. do. But what can't do is burn a second first-round draft pick on someone who can't play for four years -- no matter how good he is. Four years is ample time for someone to get hurt. It happens all the time. So, no. I'm sorry. It has to be one or the other. To postpone four years is four years he could be in big leagues. The sooner he gets there the sooner he can reap the benefits. Stanford or The Money. Young Billy regards the check, and then his parents. He really doesn't know what to do. We're going to give him a different kind of education. This won't be his life's career, it'll be his first career. He's going to be a young guy in the business world when his baseball career is done. He'll still have his whole life ahead of him. It's your decision, Billy. Whatever you decide is fine with us. BILLY's looking out his window while holding his cordless phone. He's dialed the numbers in and just has to hit the green button. And now he does. PETER's ringing cell phone wakes him up and he answers it. Hello? It's Billy Beane. What time is it? don't care. Would you have drafted me in the first round? What? After left you ran me through your computer, right? Would you have drafted me in the first round? You were a good baseball player. Would you have drafted me in the first round? I'd have drafted you in the ninth round. No signing bonus. You'd have passed and gone to Stanford. Pack your suitcases. Why? just bought you from the Cleveland Indians. hangs up the phone. He sits all alone for a moment. Peter pulls into the parking lot for his first day of work, takes in the sight of the colossal, concrete relic that is the Oakland Coliseum. He's just in time to see a paint roller on a long pole laying a white stripe down the middle of Jason Giambi's giant portrait. PETER's completely converted the place. The dry erase boards are covered with undecipherable equations, algorithms and numbers and who's pretty tired now after not a lot of sleep, is in the middle of this. This is what sees when he walks into the doorway, where he slows down, stops and looks around blankly. Good evening. Good evening. asked you to do three. Yes. To evaluate three available players. Yeah. And how many did you do? 51, don't know why lied just then. Talk me through the wall. gets up and gives a tour of the dry erase boards. This is the American League West. This year we're going to need to win between 97 and 101 games to make the post season. Here's the number of runs we'll need to score in order to win those games and here's the number of runs we can allow. Let's make sure we're on the same page. Okay. We're going to re-think baseball. Yes. Look for an inefficiencies in statistics. Examine the ways that runs are scored and prevented. Exploit the fact that unspectacular runs are just as valuable as 450-foot bombs. Unspectacular runs are more valuable. Why? Because they cost less. We believe there's a river that hasn't been fished. We know it for sure. And because players have been overlooked because they don't rise to the standards of traditional baseball thinking, we believe that in this river, there are fish...fish who-- lost it) Help me with-- Forget the fish. In this room is every available player at every level of professional baseball, and somewhere in that group are 25 players that everyone has else has thrown out. An island of misfit toys. In this room is a championship team that we can afford. Yes. But let me ask you this. If our theory is right-- Math isn't a theory. If it's right-- It's right. It sounds right. It is right. If math isn't a theory-- It isn't. I'm gonna punch you in the kidneys if you don't let me finish a sentence. Sorry. If this is right, why isn't everybody doing it? In fact, why isn't anybody doing it? Somebody once said, "It's not what you don't know that worries me it's what you know for sure that's got me scared." In the mid-19th Century in Budapest there was an incredibly high instance of mothers dying shortly after childbirth from a disease called puerperal fever. Make this story less boring as soon as you can. doctor named Semmelweiss showed that if the attending physicians and nurses sterilized their hands before delivery, the mortality rate dropped to 1%. And he was vilified? He was institutionalized. For suggesting that washing your hands before putting them inside someone else's body was a good idea. High functioning people can live under the spell of an inexplicable mental lapse when they think as a group. Why isn't anybody else doing it? Because they don't think guys who look like you are what win baseball games. They know it for sure. Alright, let's find our team. Peter schleps his computer stuff. Sets up, plugs in, fires up. Turns an unused room into a war room with dry erase boards and computers. He installs software in the video room computer, works on a computer in his room, prints two pages of data and reviews. Peter enters and hands the two pages to Billy. Billy reviews, stands, then slowly paces as he reads. Peter stands and watches. From somewhere in the outfield, we have a wide view of the darkened stadium and Billy's office, which, unlike the others, is illuminated. We can just discern Billy's silhouette as he continues to slowly pace and study. Billy and Peter walk down a long, subterranean corridor. Peter carries a laptop and a slim notebook. Nervous? No?? Huh. Interesting. Peter doesn't know what to make of that. As they near the scouting room, Billy sees waiting for him outside it. Hey, Art. Can talk to you a second before you get started. got a lot to do. know. Whatever it is, Billy knows it can't be as dire as his other problems, but also knows that to ignore Art would be to insult him. He gestures for Peter to go into the scouting room alone. He'd rather not, but does. The scouts, assuming perhaps he's there to make coffee, ignore him. He finds a place to sit in a corner. Who's the kid? That's Peter. can't manage this team under a one-year contract. Sure you can. No can't. I've got to put a team on the field, then I'll deal with your contract. How about you deal with the manager's contract and then put a team on the field? At the moment, if a ground ball is hit to first base, nobody's going to be there to stop it from rolling. have to tell you it's not easy doing what do under the cloud of a one-year contract. know. been there. know you have. And a 1-year contract says the same thing to a manager as it does to a player: There's not a lot of faith there. Which is strange after a 102-win season. If you lose the last one of the season nobody gives a shit about the others. It's on me now? It's on me, Art! And the kid's the new assistant general manager. What the fuck are you about to do? doesn't answer the question, just walks into the- -and ignoring Peter - who has tried to inconspicuously plant himself in a corner - pulls up a chair to receive his scouts' report - which Grady, as always, will lead. Art wanders off. How did it go in Cleveland? It was cold. The news bothers no one. Let's get after our relief pitching problem. We got Chad Bradford. Right-hander. Few, if any of them, have heard of Bradford and begin leafing through their printouts and notes. Submariner? That's the one. Technically an underhander. What's his velocity? Unimpressive. About 85. Does he have a good breaking ball? Doesn't have one. Why do you like this guy? Well, he gets people out. The left-hander hitters get a really good look at him. He's down there. He's down there real low, too. Let's move on. The scouts aren't sure what to say, and so say nothing. Well, we, think, have fared better. We have some ideas for what to do about Giambi. Knock me down. We trade power for speed. rabbit for a gorilla - We go for an overachiever. big heart in the last year his contract. Tend to play hard. We usually get a pretty good year out of them. Make up for some of the offense we lost. (puts more names up) Or the other option. Just a thought. We go for a high-maintenance guy. guy that's a little difficult but talented. guy like Milton Bradley. Well, not like Milton. Milton himself. Which do you want to talk about first? None of them. Grady looks like a man who can't take much more. You're still looking to replace him; you're just saying it another way. We got some trades here. We can't do it. What we can do is recreate his value to us in the aggregate. The (what) - Giambi's on-base percentage was .477. Damon's was .324. And Olmeda's - bless his heart - was .291. Add that up and you get - He points to Peter. You want me to speak? When point at you, yes. Ten-ninety-two. Divided by three - Three-sixty-four. That's what we're looking for. And that's what we'll find. Three players whose average is - Three-sixty-four. That doesn't come out right. You gotta carry the one. Still don't look right. It's right. The others aren't sure what confuses them more - the logic, or the guy who shouldn't be in this room. Billy? Yes. Who's that? That's Peter. And that's all he's going to tell them about Peter. don't know how to say this delicately - but does - Peter - need to be here? Yes. What's with this on base percentage obsession? Is that Bill James bullshit? You can call it Billy Beane bullshit for all care. Billy takes a Marks-A-Lot, jots down three names on strips, and approaches the board. So here's who we want. One. He puts the first strip up. It reads: Jason's little brother Jeremy. He never comes home from the games. Billy, if may, he's had his problems on the field -- not to mention his problems off the field -- not to mention he's getting a little thick around the middle -- there's the stuff with the weed. He's at strip joints... This guy could start the year with an agent and end up with a parole officer for Christ's sake. His on-base percentage is all we're looking at now and he gets on base an awful lot for someone who only costs $285,000 a year. He can't catch a ball in the outfield. I've seen him lose a ball in the moonlight. Billy puts up another name: David Justice. Ten years ago he was a big name. He's going to really help our season tickets at the beginning of the year. But by June he's not going to be hitting his weight. He's 36! His legs are gone. He's a defensive liability. question whether the bat speed is still there. Steinbrenner is so pissed at his decline he's willing to eat up half his contract to get rid of him. That's good. He's a fossil. With all due respect, bringing these three guys aboard is like putting bubble gum on a flat tire. And why do we want to be the ones to bail Justice out of his contract? Billy points at -- He gets on base. got 37 free agents who are better than those guys. Scott Hatteberg. Who? Exactly. Sounds like an Oakland already. Yes, he's got a little damage in his elbow. Some damage? He can't throw. We're not interested in him for his arm anymore than we wanted Giambi for his. Wait, you're talkin' about Hatteberg at first? Yes. He's a career .260 hitter and the good part of his career is over. say it's just starting. Well, Billy, you'll like the sound of this... hear Boston wants to cut him and no one wants to pick him up. That's good news for us. He's cheap. Let me understand this. At first base you want a guy who's been cut from half of the minor league teams in the country due to irreparable nerve damage? He can't hit and he can't field, but what can he do? Look at the piece of paper or I'm going to point at Peter. The consult their spreadsheets and then answer He can get-- He can get on base. Alright, so he walks a lot. He gets on base a lot, Rocco. Do care if it's a walk or a hit? You do not. These three players, by your own admission, are defective in one way or another. Yeah. You want to replace Jason Giambi with not one but three defective players? You got it. Billy, we've all been busting our asses the last six and a half weeks to make this a better ball-- (cutting him off) Grady, it's not a discussion. think we're all losing sight of the fact that you're the general manager. You only have to answer to ownership and God. didn't know God followed baseball. hope he does. Some of the scouts look over in Peter's direction, no doubt wondering if he's had something to do with their general manager's ideas. Billy, just don't see it. That's okay, Wash. We won't be victimized by what we see anymore. understand what you're saying about their averages, but there's something you're forgetting. None of them plays first base. haven't forgotten that, Wash. One of them is going to have to learn. Learn. You're going to have to teach him. Teach. Instruct. Which one? Christmas tree. Four stockings hang from the mantle. The phone rings. gets up. He looks at it. Looks at his wife. Picks it up. Hello? Scott? Yes? It's Billy Beane. Oakland A's. was expecting that it would be someone else... Yes? Can we talk? Yes. You want to invite me in? What? I'm outside. can see you in the window. goes to the window and cups his hands against the glass to see outside. Honey? Two silhouettes are standing on the edge of the fairway. One of them waves. is putting out some cookies shaped like stars and bells for the late-night guests: and Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. She leaves her husband with the two men but listens in on their conversation from the next room, nibbling on a cookie of her own. You've played catcher your whole life? Since was 8. produces a baseball from his windbreaker and hands it to can only manage to grip the baseball like a claw. Washington looks to heaven. How's the elbow? Good. Real good. It's great. can't throw at all. Yeah, don't worry about it. You've thrown your last baseball from behind the plate. want you at first. is so thrown by this that all he can do is stare at Then at who's shrug tells "This wasn't my idea." I've only ever played catcher. You're not a catcher anymore. If you were, then mine wouldn't have been the only call you got when your contract expired at midnight. appreciate it but-- You're welcome. You don't know how to play first base. That's right. It's not that hard. Tell him, Wash. It's incredibly hard! Anything worth doing is. Wash is gonna teach you. Wait a minute, what about-- Jason's gone, Scott. I'm taking Giambi's spot at first? What about the fans? Yeah, maybe can teach one of them. The fans don't run-- (back to --the fans don't run my ball club. They're gonna hate me. (motioning to No, they're gonna hate him. The fans love me. Okay. HATTEBERG's comes down the staircase in her pajamas, having just woken up in the middle of the night. Hello. Hi. That's our youngest daughter. Great. Do you have kids? doesn't like to share personal lives with the players but he covers well-- --yeah, have a daughter. takes a contract out of his windbreaker and sets it on the table next to the cookies. This is a contract for you to play baseball with the Oakland A's. copy's on its way to your agent. Discuss it with your wife and let us know. (They get up and Billy calls off) Thanks for the cookies, ma'am. We see with tears running down her face...then go back to the living room-- You're welcome. (on his way out) Merry Christmas. The door of a suburban house opens, revealing a Hi. Hi, Billy. She pulls the door open so he can come in. As he does - She home? She's out, but she'll be home soon. As Billy enters his ex-wife Sharon's house, her husband walks in, talking on the phone. Yeah, no, don't worry about it sweetie. Here's mom. Alan hands Sharon the phone. Hey Alan. Come on in have a seat. Want some coconut water? It's really refreshing. I'm all set, thanks. What are you benching now? don't keep count. Well, whatever it is, it's working. You look good. They sit on the couch next to a Christmas tree. haven't got to see you since the playoffs in New York. That was heartbreaking, Billy. We were rooting for you. Yep. You know what say? Fuck `em. I'm sorry Alan, what do you say? No, just wanted to say that a lot of teams don't get that far, and to make it that far is a really big accomplishment. Sharon gets off the phone and joins them. So how is she? She's great. Be here in a minute. How's the team shaping up? New beginnings. Blue horizons. read that you lost two players. Damon Ghee-ambi? Giambi. Wow, that's tough. That's really tough. And Isringhausen. Sounds tough. So where is she? just talked to her on her cell. She's just coming up the hill, she's two minutes away. You bought her a cell phone? Yeah. At 12? Just for emergencies. I'm sorry, we should have consulted you for that It's probably a good idea. But actually called you - The front door opens. It's Billy's daughter Casey - a pre- teen indie-rock girl - and not a moment too soon. He's up quickly to give her a hug and to get out of here. Let's go shopping. Billy and Casey peruse guitars. You want one with nylon strings, right? like the red ones. How about this? Yeah, that's cool. Let's try it out over here. They take a seat. Casey easily fingers through a very tough spray of notes. Casey. Yeah. You got good. I've just been playing a lot. That's... that's not the way most 12 year olds play. Alan thinks should have a better teacher. Who's Alan? looks at him -- Oh, yeah. Mom's Alan. What's wrong with the teacher you have now? Alan thinks should be working more on technique so don't learn bad habits. Well, you seem to be doing just fine to me. Do you like playing? love it. That's so great. I'm so happy for you. The most important thing in life is to find something you love and do it well. Do you like your teacher? Yeah. Okay, I'll talk to Mom and Alan. Do you like that guitar? Yes! That the one? Yeah, think so. Let's get it. Let's get it now. Really? Merry Christmas. BILLY's at the plate, a batting helmet snug around his head, wearing a uniform, as a 97 mph fastball buzzes by him and the calls-- Striiike! steps out of the box, taps the dirt off his cleats and steps back in. younger-looking is sitting in field level seats, looking on nervously and trying not to show it. half-swings at the breaking ball, holding his swing at the last minute. The and both point down to first base for the call and the makes a fist in the air, indicating that Billy swung. Striiike! And Billy's out. holds her head in her hands and walks back to the dugout, passing a player with on his back. And now the quick scenes of failure become staccato-- playing for minor league Tidewater and he grounds playing for minor League Toledo. He swings and pops up lamely to the throwing his bat down in frustration as he jogs hopelessly to first and we ...Billy Beane, who's quickly establishing a new record for breaking bats, bat racks and water coolers, was actually a much-touted first round pick of the New York Mets in 1980 but the majors have not been kind to him with only 18 plate appearances in two years and this won't doing anything to help him as... playing for the Minnesota Twins where he comes back into the dug out and throws his batting helmet down and playing for minor league Portland and a water cooler goes flying across the dugout and ...one of two first round picks in 1980 along with Daryl Strawberry, Beane was brought up last year and sent back down after 8 at-bats so here's a second chance as Smith delivers... playing for the Minnesota Twins. He swings hard at a pitch and strikes out and we playing for the Detroit Tigers and the bat rack gets heaved across the field and ...If you're a real baseball fan with a good memory you might remember that Billy Beane was taken in the first round of the amateur draft back in 1980, separated from All-Star outfielder Daryl Strawberry by only 14 picks, so it just goes to show... in an A's uniform. He stands and watches a called third strike sail past him. Strike! Billy breaks the bat over his thigh and drops the pieces on the plate. He begins to walk off. Hey Billy, clean up after yourself. Billy hears him but continues to walk off. looks up at in the seats behind the dugout but the two can't quite meet each other's eyes. In the subterranean video room - an even less elegant place than the rest of the stadium - someone has put up a scraggly Christmas tree. There, Peter watches a tape of a minor leaguer on the Lowell Spinners, a Single-A Boston affiliate. Billy comes in. How'd it go? How'd what go? Hatteberg. He can barely hold a baseball. But he's our guy now. Billy sits. Who's that? That is Kevin Youkilis. This is the guy we want more than anyone else in the world. Billy watches the guy on the screen. He's an overweight right-handed batter with a peculiar stance. He can't run, throw or field. But he walks more than anyone in baseball except Barry Bonds. Take out intentional walks and it's more than Bonds. He's the Greek God of Walks. On the the batter takes another pitch just off the edge of the strike zone. tried to get Shapiro to draft him last June. He said he waddled like a duck. Boston took him. Boston won't let him go yet. They're going to wait and see. They watch him lay off a pitch an inch outside the strike zone. Peter gives Billy a look that says, You see that? You all right, Billy? Billy? Grady has appeared behind them at the door. Can we talk a minute? Yeah. Yeah. Grady closes the video room door for privacy. The only other person in sight is manager Art Howe, in his office in street clothes. He shuts his windowed door so Grady and Billy can talk in confidence. Your boy and had a talk while you were in Tacoma. didn't like much of what heard. No? No. You got a kid in there with a Yale economics degree and a scout out here with 29 years baseball experience and you're listening to the wrong one. don't listen to anyone, you know that. This isn't a joke. I'm not joking. This isn't how you run a ball club, with a computer. You know that. You're a baseball man. There are intangibles that only a scout can see in a player that you're not going to pick up with just numbers, with someone who doesn't play the game, who knows nothing about the game but how to feed numbers into a computer. That's what we're doing. That's exactly what we're doing. If this is what baseball is, if it's not Kirk Gibson going up to the plate on two bad legs because the manager felt in his heart that he had one swing left in that body... a computer wouldn't do that. They would have had him sitting up in the stands. computer doesn't romanticize the sport. Leave that for the fans. Well, romance and the fans, it's called a love affair with the game and it's been going on for one hundred and fifty years. don't want to hurt you love affair with the game. Just because we've been doing it one way for a hundred and fifty years doesn't mean we've been doing it right. You have any idea how long people thought the sun revolved around the earth? To your eyes it looks like that's what's happening. You're saying everybody's been wrong? Everybody? Beat. Are you saying everybody's been wrong? Yes. Maybe. Yes, and I've thought so my whole life. And now we're gonna see if I'm-- --we're gonna see if you're right?! This is about you and your shit? Some scouts from 20 years ago called it wrong, okay? They thought you were a ballplayer and you weren't. As you know, it happens. Don't take it out on-- I'm not--taking it out on-- I'm trying to help, okay, I'm saying-- No, you're not saying anything to me right now. Grady, you don't have special powers. You don't have the ability to look at a guy and "just know" because you're a scout with special powers. I've watched you sit at kitchen tables for years and tell the parents of a 17 year old kid, "Trust me, when know, know, and when it comes to your son, know" and you don't. We're shopping in a new store--full of complicated statistical analysis and equations and get that it turns your world upside down but on base percentage-- our best chance to score on our budget isn't getting a 6'4" Adonis to the plate, it's getting a 5'10" washout who's already at first base. May speak? Yes. Major League Baseball and its fans will be happy to hand you and Google Boy your heads if you keep doing what you're doing here, don't give a shit about friendship this situation or the past. Major League Baseball thinks the way think. You're not gonna win. And I'll give you a nickel's worth of free advice. You're making it impossible for yourself to get another job once Schott fires you after this catastrophic season you're setting us all up for and you're gonna have to explain to your wife and your kid why you're working at Dick's Sporting Goods. I'm not gonna fire you, Grady. Go fuck yourself, Billy. Well now maybe. takes off. stands there a moment. On his way out, passing Art's windowed office, he exchanges a look with the manager. Billy takes a short walk to where a few of his scouts are standing around an arcade console. To the youngest one - Eric. You never even played high school ball, right? The young scout shakes his head, embarrassed. Grady's gone. You're the new Head Scout. Billy turns away and is headed back to the video room. Pokes his head in. Don't try to explain things to scouts. They're not programmed to get it. It's just us. He leaves. Peter watches the door close, then glances back to the tape as Youkilis takes ball four and waddles down to first base. Team / JumboTron photos are taken of our new A's. It's clear from the photo Billy didn't hire them to sell jeans. March 2, 2002 - Billy gives an interview to a Billy, will the fans still come out now that you've lost Giambi? don't know, Graham. Will they listen to your insipid radio show? goes through the effort of putting on his knee-braces. Scott Hatteberg, lacing up, watches him. Various stations have been set up at which infielders go through their warm-ups - wind sprints, arm loosening. Infielders field grounders hit by Art Howe from a fungo. Billy paces in the foul territory off the first base line. missing a fly ball, looking tired, missing the scoop. Art hits another grounder which Hatteberg botches again. Art looks at Billy a good long beat, then hits to another infielder. Peter walks up to Billy, just as - poke off the bat sends Jeremy Giambi scrambling back like a postman trying to escape a mad dog. The ball lands behind him. Well, we didn't pay him for his defense. Art and Washington hit grounders to Carlos Pena and Scott Hatteberg. Hatteberg miraculously gets his mitt on it. That's the way, Hatte. Pickin' Machine. Behind a portable backstop, a guy with a radar gun gets ready to clock a trio of relievers. Mike Magnante has his pant legs pulled up to adjust knee-braces. Magnante gets up and begins throwing, increasing his velocity each time. None of those broke 85. They watch the second pitcher - the gentle-faced kid from the locker room - Chad Bradford - step up. Chad have high hopes for. Bradford overthrows his first submarine hand-scraping- the-ground pitch, and the ball sails wide of the catcher. Somebody ducks. Art Howe glances with a long-suffering look to Billy. It just got away from him. They watch David Justice do wind sprints. He's still got it. Then Justice stops, winded. As the players shower and change into street clothes, Art, Billy and Washington discuss Hatteberg, who knows they're discussing him. It's the first day of week one. There's nothing to judge yet. can judge it and so can you. First base is the moon to him. It wasn't to Giambi? He's the worst first baseman in baseball. What do you think of him, Wash? The nicest way can put it is, he lacks confidence. Work with him Wash. I'll do that, Billy, but we've got Pena who can play first. And he's looking pretty good out there. want to make it work with Hatte, Wash. As Washington crosses the locker room to lie to Scott about how much progress he's making, he passes Magnante taking off his knee braces, and Chad Bradford sitting at his locker with a Bible in his lap. Not to mention we already have a first baseman. rookie first baseman. It's not the same. Number 11 on the Top 100 Prospects list. Lists aren't baseball. Catchers at first base aren't baseball. Who's idea was this? Peter's? Hatteberg will be fine, Art. He will be fine, you're right. Pinch hitting while Pena plays first base. towering portrait of David Justice has been painted where Jason Giambi's used to be. The hardest diehard fans file under it and through the turnstiles. You know what they look like, dripping A's merchandise, radios and Sharpies, arriving so early the cage is still being dragged into place. Indicate the arrival of opening day. foul lines are painted, broadcast trucks plug in, the network control room fires up, do their prep, Steve Schott lands in his helicopter. April 1, 2002 - Players prepare. Magnante puts on his knee braces. Yeah... been doing it for way too long. How long does it take? When first started these things? It was like a half hour process. Now can knock these suckers out in 30 seconds, no problem. Jeremy Giambi's boombox is on again as he and his 24 teammates suit up. 36-year-old David Justice wanders past to a soda machine. Presses a button, but nothing comes out. Tries again. Is a dollar, mang. What? Always been like that here. You're kidding me, right? Welcome to Oakland. and walk through. He walks past BRADFORD's locker... Excuse me, Mr. Beane. Hey Chad. hope I'm not disturbing you. You're not, what's up? wanted to say thanks for the opportunity. It's gonna work out well for both of us. Nobody in the major league ever took me seriously. Nobody? Just you, sir. Okay. It's a big day, you won't forget it. I'm going to pray for you and your family. follows out of the locker room. and welcome the fans to opening day, discuss the A's lineup and the problems they face this season. It's fifteen minutes before the game as some executives have their picture taken on the field with Hey, great to see you. Thanks for coming out. Got a good box? You want a picture? Sure, let me step in there. Great, big smiles now. Big smiles. Know what like about opening day? Everyone's even. Thank you. You all enjoy the game. gets his picture taken with from an area Little League team. He's laughing and being a good host. Hey, how you guys doing. So you won? That's great. What position are you? How's your fastball? 92? Alright, should we get a pic? Billy and the Little League team pose with a giant donation check. The announcer then directs everyone's attention to a trophy ceremony in progress. As Chavez receives his Golden Glove award and smiles for the fans... greeting some VIP's in their field-level seats. Throughout this we'll hear bits of talk radio. With the departure of head scout Grady Fuson and a roster that I'll describe as unusual, if not eccentric, you have to wonder what Billy Beane is thinking. catches a glance of taking her seat nearby. In the family area, Elizabeth introduces herself to Tara. Hi, I'm Elizabeth. Hi. Tara. Which is yours? Scott Hatteberg. Catcher - actually first base - actually we don't know. Yours? Mr. Beane? Tara nods. He's a saint. Really? Art is talking to a Are they picking up your option for next year? beat. brought it up to them during the off- season, and still do not have my option. Are you frustrated? think it's fair to say that. Art Howe stands mid-field as the starting lineup is announced. One by one, players join him on the field. The honor guard presents the flag as everyone stands for the National Anthem. Afterward, the players scatter to warm up for the game. The as the A's take the field. Billy and Peter are at the edge of the tunnel, watching. Okay, good. I'm heading in. Why? don't watch the games. Is this a joke? shakes his head "no". gestures "What the fuck are you talking about?" don't know what you're miming. I'm miming "You don't watch the games?!" This is my team. And they've taken the field. They're world class athletes who are fighting for their lives and stand with them. Except not literally so need you to text me what Art does. walks out onto-- BILLY's watching the game on with the sound off but we can hear the live crowd in the stadium. CRACK--a hits a three-run homer and walks out of the room and An hits an easy pop-up to center field and Where BILLY's on a stationary bike. His blackberry buzzes and he takes a look-- "Fly out to cntr" Where BILLY's bench pressing and Where an has just hit a ground ball to the who tosses it easily to second for the first out, and the throws it over to first for-- Where looks at the blackberry which now says-- The blackberry goes crashing into the wall and blows apart. We find Billy and Art in conversation. Yeah. should have made you a bigger part of the conversation, should have had you in the scout meetings from the first day, that way you would have understood this better and that was another mistake, take full responsibility. What are you trying to say? It doesn't matter what moves make if you don't play the team the way need them played. You are out of your depth. Why wasn't Hatteberg at first? Because he can't play first. How do you know? Not my first baseball game. Scott Hatteberg can't hit. He gets on-- And his defense-- Still keeps us in the plus column and we only need to be 7 over 500. Anything else? Yeah, would have rather seen Chad Bradford in there at the end than Magnante. don't care about righty/lefty. do. This is about your contract? No, you've made it clear what you think about that. This is about you doing your job and me doing mine. Mine's being left alone to manage the beer league team you assembled for me. didn't assemble them for you, assembled them for me. No shit. want you to go on the road with the team. You don't go on the road with the team. That's why want you to do it. Why don't you? don't want to develop personal relationships. need to trade them, send them down and sometimes cut them. You should learn how to do that by the way. The only way I'd have to cut a player is if you oh come on! Yeah, let's practice. No. I'm a player, cut me from the roster. No. Do it. This is stupid. Man-up, Yale. Fine. Billy, would you have a seat for a moment, need to talk to you. I'm already sitting. was pretending you weren't sitting. But am. Keep going. This is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball. You got that from Bull Durham? Yeah. Hitting a curve ball is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball but go ahead. You've been a huge part of this team but decisions have to be made that are best for the team, I'm sure you can understand that. You're cutting me? I'm really sorry. just bought a house here. Well... Well? That's all you have to say? My kids just started at a new school, they made friends. That's--I'd leave them in school, you don't want to take them out in the middle What the hell are you doing? Are you you or the player? I'm me. You're talking about kids and schools and you should've been out of the room three minutes ago. Shouldn't tell them that they'll always be a part of the A's family? That makes me feel so good I'm thinking of burning your house down with you in it. These are professional baseball players. You just do it. "Peter, need to let you go. Jack's office'll handle the paperwork." That's it? Would you rather get one bullet in the head or five in the chest and bleed to death? Those are my only choices? Go on the road with the team. Jeremy Giambi discreetly mixes a highball from a cache of hotel minibar liquor bottles as he watches his favorite movie on a portable player, The Natural. is sitting next to who scrolls down stats on his laptop. How come your boss doesn't travel with the team? He doesn't like to mingle with the players. Makes us easier to cut? doesn't say anything... He's gonna make some moves if we keep losing. gives a small "Yeah" shrug... How come soda costs a dollar in the clubhouse? Billy likes to keep the money on the field. Soda money? doesn't say anything... Where on the field is the dollar pay for soda? It's hard to see. (shaking his head) Alright. Billy watches the - taking his place at first. The A's begin their first road trip of the season having dropped 7 of their first 11 games at home and their schedule doesn't get any easier from here. If there's a bright spot it's rookie first baseman Carlos Pena. Billy turns off the gets beeper updates as he works out. Billy drives. With the A's getting off to a miserable start/13 of their last 20/17 of their last 25/etc... BILLY's waiting for someone. also watching the game, recognizes Billy. Hey, aren't you Billy Beane? Yeah. Shouldn't you be at the game? Nope. emerges from the gate, sees her father before he sees her and runs to him. They hug. Hey, Dad. Hey, honey... I'm glad to see you. and are throwing a ball through their office doors on either side of the hallway-- It's not a big enough sample yet. want to wait until we play more games. watches the game from the office He sees -- grounds into a double play to end the game. And Justice hits into the 6-4-3 double play to end the game... The trot on the field to high-five each other. Casey sits at the table as Billy scoops ice cream. Do you want strawberry or vanilla? Both. Don't tell your mother. If you could only have one ice cream for the rest of your life, which would you choose? Vanilla. Definitely vanilla. Interesting. Chocolate sauce? Yup. beat. Then -- Dad... if you could choose between the power of invisibility or flight, which would you choose? Flight. Yeah, I'd wanna fly. You? think I'd want invisibility. Really? Why? don't know. People wouldn't notice me as much. Why wouldn't you want people to notice you? don't know. Well, guess you could sneak up on people. Or eavesdrop on their conversations. You could be a spy. So how's school? My teacher's kinda mean. She doesn't like us to ask questions. What kind of teacher doesn't let you ask questions? know, right? Mom was mad, too. She thinks maybe should be home schooled. Wouldn't you miss your friends? Yeah. But the other kids are mean. There are always going to be bullies. Try not to let them get to you. But let me know if it's becoming a problem. Can ask you a question? Are you still chewing tobacco? Yeah... Please stop. know, it's terrible. Look, promise I'll quit in November if you promise not to worry about it. Pinkie swear? Pinkie swear. Theoretically, when we've played more games the numbers will become more Theoretically? The scoreboard shows the A's down by 1 in the 6th. As Art trudges toward the mound to pull his starter, he touches his left arm. Magnante emerges from the pen - and Peter, up in a box, flips open his phone. is saying goodbye to Alright. Be good. Okay. Billy's Blackberry chimes. He ignores it. feel like-- You feel like what? don't know, did we talk enough this time? About what? Anything. Did we talk about the things you want to talk about, did we have fun? Yeah!? Okay. love you, Dad. You're doing it right now. What? You're worrying about me. Sorry. Do look like I'm worried? Yeah. `Cause you're getting on an airplane and those things crash all the time. Will you please stop worrying about your father? You're a kid, can't have it. Okay. Can worry about the airplane now though? Absolutely. approaches -- We're all set. Great. There's a slightly awkward moment and isn't sure whether she's supposed to hug her father again and so they do a sort of half-hug. love you. watches her go off with the attendant, feeling like it was an unsatisfying visit. He looks at his blackberry-- 3-2. Magnante in. No! in the area stops to look at the madman. (to the people looking at him) No no. I'm alright. Billy runs the warning track with a small radio that he turns on long enough to follow what's happening, and switches it off again. Over the following, we hear a cacophony of radio and tumbling into each other-- The A's have fallen to 19-25. giving up a save-blowing hit while sits in the bullpen... An Oakland hits into a double-play, strike out, caught stealing, picked off first, a lop-sided scoreboard, half- The parking lot is a vast, empty black sea with just two pin-points of moving light. Headlights. Billy drives around the lot like a downhill skier with nothing in his way -- his daughter's mix-tape playing. Jeremy lines a single to right, but is so slow he's almost thrown out at first. Art Howe glances at his bench coach, Ken Macha. Art Howe is the only manager in baseball who has to think about pinch running his leadoff hitter. Down in the Visitors' pen, Chad sits with Mike Magnante. Why do you do it? can't not do it. How do you do it? Every ball park's different. take that into account and adjust the distance of my steps. Exactly seventy-four, from the pen to the mound. You should get that looked at, man. The in the dugout, hanging their heads during a Peter erases the percentage of games left they need to win and writes in a higher number and He's listening to the radio. -- after Sunday's 11-0 rout. Now, having dropped 13 of 16, the A's are a game away from being swept at home by the East last place Baltimore Orioles. as we follow Billy's truck from Oakland over the Bay Bridge into San Francisco. Steve. Billy. You remember Peter. Peter. Guys, give me some idea of what's going on out there. Listen, it's a team of probabilities, and we're gonna need 162 games to tell that tale in a nascent form. It's phase one, we're evolving and we feel confident where we're heading. We're not scared. 3 out of 17 games. 3. We're getting crucified in the press. What makes you think this is gonna turn around? Because believe in what we're doing. believe the numbers. believe the record doesn't accurately reflect the team and where we're going to be at the end of the season. Peter and feel very strongly that we need to stick to the game plan, and you can tell your partners to start booking their tickets to the playoffs. Billy, look, you've got guys who are nearly crippled, who couldn't get hired as an usher in a ballpark now playing on the team. Give me something can go back to these guys with and feel like have the confidence that you're gonna turn these things around. With all due respect you asked me to build a team with shoelaces and gum wrappers and we've done it. You haven't done it yet billy. And it will pay off. Stick with us. Suffer the blows. Listen, life with no money means we're gonna have to suffer a few embarrassments along the way, but we are okay in the end. Billy, there's a lot of money at stake here. And a lot of people with vested interest in seeing this be successful. I've given you a lot of flexibility. When are we gonna start to see a change in these results? Schott sits back at his desk. Give me a date, give me a time frame. Where do we expect to be mid July All Star break? Our goal and our expectation by the All Star break is to be within seven games of first place. That'll keep us in the hunt. And that would be this working exceptionally well. 7 within 500. By July. And what's going to keep us from getting there? Nothing Steve. Nothing. We're 3 for 17 right now. You've got to be able to give me a little bit more to go back to my partners with. Listen, you hired me to do this job and that's where we're going to be. That's not good enough. Well, let's go buy Barry Bonds, then. This is the team we've got and this is the team we'll win with. Billy, put yourself in my shoes. What do you imagine is going to happen if things don't turn around? It's very clear, Steve. If put myself in your shoes, I'd spend another 20 million on the team. We don't have another 20 million I'm just kidding, Steve, I'm just kidding. We've got the team. gotta be honest with you, Billy, wish you had a little more worry and a little more fear. Because things aren't going in our direction right now. 162 games Steve. Let's hope the next 30 are better than the last 30. don't need to hope. All right fellas. Let's go try and win one. We're in May, we've got til July. The A's take batting practice. May 23, 2002 as he always does, is watching not from the railing but from the bench. walks into the dugout without saying hello. We're not gonna lose three at home to the Orioles. want Dye in right, Justice DH-ing, Pena on the bench, Hatteberg at first and anyone but Magnante first out of the pen. You want Pena on the bench? That's right. So that you can play Hatteberg. Hatte - as opposed to the guy who's going to win Rookie of the Year. No, Hatte - as opposed to the guy who gets on base less. Pena getting voted Rookie of the Year and the A's making the playoffs are two entirely different-- Pena's not just the best first baseman on the roster, he's the only first baseman on the roster and the most valuable member on this team. Not according to, what do you call `em, facts. Listen to me--gets on base more than Pena. 25% more. His fielding doesn't matter. It does matter and Pena only has one error in 70 games. Not only is that number statistically insignificant but it's also subjective. It measures what someone did against what someone else thought they were supposed to do. Part of the conversation? I've heard enough of the conversation and disagree with you, plain and simple. Moreover, strongly believe that you're in the middle of experiencing some sort of personal crisis and you seem indifferent to the fact that you're taking a whole organization down with you. I'm playing my team in a way can explain in job interviews this winter. Some As players arrive in the dugout, causing Billy to hold his tongue. He simply says - Hatte, not Pena. The game plays silently on the as Billy lifts weights. Not wanting to watch but not being able not to, he looks at the screen to see Pena trotting out to first base ... The Orioles' bench clears to high-five the players coming off the field. The game is over, and, obviously, they've won. The A's exit their dugout to the tunnels. As Art crosses to his office, he sees Billy waiting inside it with a towel around his neck. He hesitates, then goes in and we follow him. Billy says nothing, but his silence is worse. Art has to break it - It's just one game. That's the point, you think? The point is always tomorrow's game. No, the point - as you said - is to win. don't like sharing the cellar with Texas, do you? We hear begin to play in the distance. I'm doing the best can with what I've got. I'm playing the players I've got. I'm through talking. Billy lets himself out and walks down the hall to the locker room - regards Jeremy Giambi - Yeah! He's not even aware of Billy. It's just like any other night as far as Jeremy Giambi is concerned. He dances to a of funk music as he dresses, until he becomes aware of Billy standing there, and smiling, he kills the music. What? Getting swept by the Red Sox at home. Having Long lead off the ninth with a triple in a one-run game and not being able to score a runner from first with nobody out, is that fun? No. Then what the fuck are you having fun for?! This is what losing sounds like. He heads out. ...point 3-5 below the average field which isn't bad. Billy? Yeah? Peter rattles off player stats. Cruz -- .283, .347, .476. Stevens -- .244, .349, .560. Miner -- .272, .349, .499. Hanson -- .280, .363, .450. Baretta -- .273, .354, .497. Durazo -- .292, .395, .621. What do you think? Billy? don't know where am. You okay? missed my exit. Billy takes the next off ramp and as on the windshield, we transition to Billy and his wife drive home from a game in silence, their infant daughter Casey asleep in a car seat in back. Sharon regards Billy's hands, clutched too tightly to the steering wheel. Have you thought about what you might do if baseball doesn't work out? What? That was too abrupt. No. What? If baseball doesn't work out. Have you thought about what you might do? The game's only been over for three hours, haven't had that much time to think about it. Sure. Maybe real estate. I'll be honest, if don't make it in baseball don't think I'm going to be able to afford much real estate. know what you meant. It's just a slump, right? No. You're saying every scout was wrong? You're kind of saying it too. Honey...don't you think you should divorce me now while you're young? looks at him... then her eyes go to the window. When a science experiment fails in a lab, things blow up. Problems are the price you pay for progress. - Branch Rickey Billy shoves a wad of Copenhagen under his lip as he and Peter walk-and-talk. Get me Wade. Why. Get him. Why. Get him. Billy's seated at his desk. Peter reluctantly dials a number from a list, the number across from the Phillies' GM's name. It connects on the speaker. Hello? Ed. Billy. need some help on defense and I'm willing to trade Jeremy Giambi for it. No, you (aren't) - (ignoring Peter; to Who you got? Let me think. What are you doing? Jeremy's doing Cleaning house. Maybe? Maybe what? No. Mabry. Hang on. (put the call on Mabry? don't know. Yes, you do. Runs hot and cold, Billy. Impossible to know what we're going to get. He's a crap shoot. He's exactly the kind of player we're not looking for. (into the phone) He'll be fine, Ed. Why do get the feeling you're picking my pocket? I'm not picking your pocket, you're picking mine. Giambi's name alone is worth more than Mabry. You realize - do. His career is stagnant, to put it nicely. Can we say it's done in theory and start drawing up paperwork? Okay. But - Great. He hangs up. think he was going to say something else. Peter. Rule Number 3: When you get the answer you're looking for - hang up. That's done, and in a minute Pena's going to Detroit. don't think you want to do that. Art can't put him at first if he's playing for the Tigers and want Hatte in the lineup tonight. Maybe you should think about this. You're upset and this is - this - What am missing? It's just a very hard move to explain. People are going to think you've lost your mind. Why's that a problem Peter? Beat. Don't make an emotional decision Billy. David Dombrowski's on 3. Billy picks up the call. Sometimes you have to shake it up. David, Peña's going on the blocks, you're my first call... because he's making the rest of the team look bad... He's going to be rookie of the year... (not eager to help but...) Probably an all star. He's an all star Dave... (winks at Peter, It's more like he's creating self-esteem problems for the other guys... No, I'm looking for a reliever and some cash... Ok... five minutes Dave, I'm not waiting. What's the problem? (trying to slow it Billy, Peña is an all star. If you dump him, and if Hatte doesn't work out, you know, this is the kind of decision that gets you fired. Why you worrying about my job? You worried about my job or yours? I'm worried about yours. Well you should be worrying about yours because if this thing we're doing don't work... neither of us have jobs. That's probably true. In which case I'm a 44 year old guy with a high-school diploma and a daughter who I'd like to be able to put through college one day. (lets it sink in) You're 25 years old with a degree from Yale and a pretty impressive apprenticeship. don't think we're asking the right question. think the question we're supposed to be asking now is, do you believe in what we're doing or not? It's a problem that you think we need to explain ourselves. Don't... to anyone. I'm going to see this through, for better or for worse. Just tell me, do you project we'll win more games with Peña or Hatteberg on first? It's close Billy but theoretically Hatteberg. What are we talking about then? The phone rings. Dave. That works. Great. There's just one more thing need. don't want the guys paying for soda--I want you to stock my soda machine for three years. Uh huh, uh huh, great... then that's a deal. Billy hangs up. He stares at Peter. That was thoughtful. Yeah. Okay. You gotta tell Pena to pack. You want me to tell Pena he's been traded? Be a man. What about Jeremy? Am telling him, too. No. I'll do that. Peter walks into the locker room. Sees Pena talking to a couple of other players. He approaches Pena. Hey, Carlos. Yeah. Can get a moment with you? Sure. Okay, maybe we can talk over here. They walk awkwardly to the players' lounge. Have a seat. They sit. So, um, Carlos, you've been traded to the Tigers. This is the number of Jay Palmer, their travel secretary. He's expecting your call. He'll help you arrange travel to Detroit. Pena sits and stares at him. It's excruciating for Peter, awkward, until -- Is that all? Yeah. Cool. Pena just takes it. Picks up the number and leaves. Billy knocks and lets himself in. Mind if have a seat. Please. You can't start Pena at first tonight, you'll have to start Hatteberg. don't want to go 15 rounds, Billy, the line-up card is mine and that's all. The line-up card is definitely yours, I'm just saying you can't start Pena at first. am starting Pena at first. don't think so, he plays for the Detroit Tigers now. You traded Pena?! Along with German, Hiljus and Jeremy Giambi. You are outside your fucking mind. Art stares at him in a silence broken by Jeremy Giambi knocking on the open door. Jeremy, come on in. Billy jots a phone number on an A's Post-It and hands it to him. This is Ed Wade's number. You know him? Art looks sick. No. Phillies General Manager. Real nice guy. Give him a call - he's expecting it - say hello - then talk to Futterman about arranging a flight for you. The what? The flight. To Philadelphia. Billy gets up and shakes his hand. It's been a real pleasure, Jeremy. mean that. You're a great ballplayer and great guy. Jeremy, not sure he heard right, looks at the Post-It in his hand as Billy escorts him to the door. We're going to miss you. Jeremy leaves. Billy looks at Art from the door. Adkins is gone, too. You're killing this team. Art? can do this all day long. He leaves. Art notices Peter, who had been lurking by the door, eavesdropping. What are you looking at? I'm not looking at anything. You went along with this? You agree with this bullshit? hundred percent. Pena cleans out his locker. Several players stop by to say goodbye. Tejada -- Keep your head up, okay? It's part of the business. You're gonna be a great player, okay? Thank you, man. Don't let this bother you at all. Chad Bradford -- Nice to meet you, brother. Take care and... God bless you, man. Thank you. Scott Hatteberg -- You're the best first baseman here. It's not right, Carlos. Thank you, Hattie. Yeah. and stride through as the team is getting dressed for batting practice. The place quiets down as comes in. They've all heard the news and they've never experienced a move like this in their careers. Scottie Yes sir. Go out and field some grounders. looks around at the who are looking at Billy... Everybody, listen up. You may not look like a winning ball team. In fact, you look nothing like a winning ball team. But you are one. So play like one tonight. You'll get further instructions tomorrow. hits a single up the middle as the runners on 2nd and 3rd round the bases to score. BILLY's blackberry buzzes. "Sngl up the mdl--2 rns scr" Okay. Billy talks to Chavez and Ellis. Peter stands nearby. No more bunts. No more bunts? bunt is an out. You're paid to avoid outs, not make them. bunt isn't an out. It's a sacrifice. bunt is for pitchers and weak hitters. You're not a pitcher, Chavvie, so what are you saying? Until the third out, anything can happen. After the third out, it's over. You gotta protect your outs like they're your children. Every out's precious, don't give `em away. Another thing -- you should see more pitches. We wanna get into their bullpen. Deep into their bullpen. We want to see 100 pitches by the end of the 5th inning. You wanna get your at-bats off their 10th and 11th pitcher. You want us to walk more. How much more? Pete? At least once every ten at bats. Or...? Triple-A Sacramento's only 80 miles away. And there's no flights. (as they look to Don't look at him. Here's the deal. I'm not interested in what you think you know about baseball, or what you think don't know about it. I'm not interested in guts or heart or determination or anything else the fans or your mothers love about you. I'm interested in you getting on base. If you do that, we win. If you don't, we lose. And hate to lose. hate to lose more than need to win. There's a difference. Billy and Peter give advice to Dye and Byrnes. Every at bat is like a hand of blackjack. Every card that's dealt, your odds completely change. For instance, every first pitch strike, your batting average goes down about 75 points. 75 points. 75 points. Every first pitch ball, it goes up about the same amount. So you gotta lay off the first pitch. First pitch curveball or first pitch fastball? First pitch period. When you swing at the first pitch you're batting .140. We want to see more pitches. How many pitches? Every starter, we want to see 100 pitches by the 5th inning. So... 5, 6 pitches per at bat? Yeah. mean, Hatteberg drained 38 pitches. And Byrnsie, you're hackin' at everything. You're all squirrely out there. Wait for your pitch, man. This is a war of attrition. There's no clock on this thing. Wait `em out. Let them make the mistakes. And when your enemy's making mistakes -- don't interrupt them. Peter advises Durham as he works out. Basically, these are all your at bats. This is you versus righties, you versus lefties... and then, of course, all your count knowledge, okay? In an 0-0 count you're batting .290. In an 0-1 you average .238. In a 0-2, .159. When you're 1-0, you're batting .324. Understand what I'm saying? Not really. know, it's a lot of math. When your first pitch is a strike, your batting average goes down about 70 points. When it's a ball, it goes up about 30. If you draw a ball on your first pitch, you're unstoppable. If you strike on the first pitch, you might as well be jumping off cliff. I'm trying to get you to lay off the first pitch. But I'm a first pitch hitter. like to swing at fastballs. And that's the way you've been trained. But it's a habit we'd like to break you from. We're trying to design the game to your strengths. This has nothing to do with you being a great hitter -- you're a great hitter. We just want to get you on base. But if get my pitch, I'm gonna swing at it, no matter what the count is. I'm not worried about you crushing the ball out of the park. just want you to lay off anything that will result in a strike. guess I'll have to watch some film and take a look at it. Absolutely. The video room is open to you any time, I'm always available. and with a group of players around the card table, post-game. -- But seriously. Make him use up all his bullets. Yeah, make him work. So... Mr. Beane? Billy's fine. Nah, make it Mr. Beane. Mr. Beane -- I'm screwin' with you, Haddie. So we just don't steal? That's right. That's what do. That's what you pay me to do. No, pay you to get on first, not get thrown out at second. don't get thrown out much. don't hit on 17 at the blackjack table, but if did, the odds would be the same. You've actually gotten caught 6 out of 17 tries this season. get 11 of 17. That's not bad. You just handed them an out. Protect your outs like they're your children. There's no clock on this game. Until the third out, anything can happen. Get on base and let the next guy move you up. Pass the torch, pass the torch. We're like a machine. run making machine. As and prepare food -- What's your biggest fear? baseball being hit in my general direction. That's funny. No, seriously. Seriously. Hey, Dave. I've been thinking... want you to -- You gonna teach me something? Excuse me? I've never seen a talk to players. You've never seen a who was a player. Huh. Is there a problem? It's okay, man. know your routine. It's a patter, it's rap, it's for effect. That's okay. But it's for them, it's not for me. You're special? You're paying me 7 million bucks so guess am a little. As a matter of fact I'm not paying you 7 million bucks, David. The Yankees are paying half your salary. That's what the New York Yankees think of you. They're paying you three and a half million dollars to play against them. If this is news to Justice, he doesn't show it. Where are you going with this, Billy? You're almost 37, Dave. Almost as old as me. Let's be honest with each other about what we each want. want to milk the last ounce of baseball you have left in you, and you want to stay in the show. So let's do that. I'm not paying you to be the player you used to be, I'm paying you to be the player you are now. You're smart, you know what's going on here. need you to set an example for the younger guys. Take a leadership role. Justice just studies him ... then nods. We're cool? We're cool. All right. Billy starts to leave, but has one last thought for him -- You know -- the Yankees are coming to town. If it were me -- I'd want to take that three point five and shove it up their ass. But I'm a competitor. Billy exits. Justice calls after him -- You know, got a couple World Series rings. think I'm a pretty good competitor, too. You want another one? takes ball four from a Yanks pitcher, tosses his bat to the side and trots down to first base. is on first and taking a big lead toward second. He wants to steal it bad. Tejada taking a big lead off first, eyeing the steal-- watches with two or three Don't do it, Migs. And CRACK--a base hit sends Tejada to 3rd. BILLY's blackberry buzzes: Sngl to lft. Frst and thrd--nobody out. Thank you. The wheels of the team jet lift off-- The is on as and work, seeming more and more like mad scientists who are getting closer and closer to splitting the atom. What is happening in Oakland?!! The A's have won seven in a row and 15 of their last 19. You got to hand it to Art Howe. He's managing this unorthodox team in an unorthodox way. They are not bunting. They are not stealing. They are just winning. And Art Howe is the reason. Did you hear that? heard 7 in a row. Billy clicks off the and it's very quiet. Billy is scrolling down numbers that show trends and comparisons of all of the A's relief pitching. Can you show me righty-lefty matchups for the division and overall versus Mariners? Peter reaches over and with a few clicks produces new columns of numbers, upon which Billy darts his eyes as he scrolls through them. Finally - Okay. He gets up and heads out. walks through the clubhouse, shouting locker room shoutouts to as he walks by. Voos. Billy. (pointing back down That smell is getting worse. I'm on it, Billy. What are we doing tonight? Splitting the plate in half. Both sides. (to Hudson, playing Huddy, you gotta mix it up tonight. Trust your slider. Yes sir. (to the others) You guys stop distracting him. Chavvie -- you couldn't hit that shit with a boat paddle last night. You gotta see more pitches. Patience. You got it, Billy. As Billy crosses through the weight room -- Hey David -- Hey, man. Great at bats. Really. Quality. Thank you. knocks on Art's door -- something we haven't seen him do before. can see through the window blinds and is a little surprised at the courtesy of a knock. Come in. does. He's going to try to do this nicely. How are ya? Good. You knocked. did, and hope you take it as a show of respect. We'll see. You look good. We've won 7 in a row, what am doing wrong now? Absolutely nothing. Good. But. Yeah. Magnante's having some head problems. Head problems. Yeah. Okay. He's 37 and he's got three blown saves in two weeks. Everytime he winds up he's thinking he's about to throw the last pitch of his life. So he grips it a little hard. appreciate this. Sure. But know my bullpen. Yes you do. Yes you absolutely do. No question about it. Except not really. Yeah? If we have a lead late in the game and they have runners on base, I'd rather not see Magnante out of the bullpen. I'll make that decision when the time comes. That's what you should do. Baseball's a game of situations and you should make the decision when the time comes. Except you should make it now. Don't bring Magnante out if we've gotta hold a late lead with runners on. He's 37, he's scared shitless of being the guy who blows this winning streak. You think a lot of yourself, don't you? I......think the regular amount of myself. Magnante on the other hand, he doesn't think very much of himself at all, and when he tightens up we've got ourselves an adventure. So I'd like to see Chad Bradford out of the pen tonight when we're in, let's say, just to make it easier for you, any situation. Righty/lefty, two outs, no outs, the umpires have decided we're going to finish the game by playing darts, whatever. Bradford's the first guy out of the pen. Okay? regards for a moment... could've coached you up, you know. don't think so. You think you went as far as you could have? Yeah, that's what meant. Play Bradford. steps out of Art's office into-- The game plays on as bench presses. The A's are up by three runs in the ninth inning but the Indians have a runner on first. Through the tunnel, can hear the crack of the bat and a collective groan from the stands. holds the barbell in the air--frozen--as he simply looks at the and sees the silent images. walking to the mound, tapping his left hand. heading to the mound. We think BILLY's going to trash the weights, but he simply returns the barbell to the bracket, sits up and watches the silent images. mops his brow, squints for the sign, winds up and makes his pitch. It misses low for ball four and walks to first. Billy lays back on the bench, breathes, then unmutes the and we hear - Magnante has quickly let two on base for Lee Stevens who's the go ahead run for the Indians in a game that Oakland appeared to have put away. And then - sits calmly...waits for it...and-- nods his head at the inevitable. That ball is deep....way back...three run homer for Lee Stevens to put Cleveland ahead in the ninth inning... can hear 40,000 people booing their lungs out. He takes a moment, then grabs his jacket. The are booing as makes his way to the mound to take out. makes his way from the bullpen and takes the ball from turns to head back to the dugout but slows as he sees a strange sight: is standing at the dugout rail. The plate notices and follows Art's line of sight. He sees and walks over there ahead of Art. You can't be in there, Billy. doesn't move. He just watches as he comes into the dugout. Billy? The are watching to see what's going to happen. puts his hand on ART's shoulder a second as he says- Just nod a little bit--not too much--like I'm assuring you you didn't just make a calamitous vocational decision. Players and coaches only, Billy. (ignoring the umpire-- still quietly to Remember that in about four seconds-- sees one of the nearby cameras pivot over to catch this conversation-- --yeah there it is. We're the lead story on Sports Center now so let me be brief. First of all, that was an awfully costly fuck-you, wouldn't you say? Second of all, genius, those boos? They're for you. Drink up. Come on, Billy. Get me this game back. As passes he pats his back before we-- The radio is on and the is telling us-- ...after giving up the lead on a three run homer off Magnante, the A's came right back to win it in the bottom of the ninth with another three run homer by Miguel Tejada. And the A's have won eight in a row! As the early-bird fanatics arrive - players arrive at the players' entrance - Magnante walks into the A's locker room. Billy, standing at the door, surveys the room, his eyes moving from player to player as they're hanging up their street clothes. The team's equipment manager, pouring himself a cup of coffee, glances over - You want one, Billy? I'm good, Voos. Thanks. Voos wanders off. Billy keeps looking at the players ... July 31 - Billy comes in sticking some tobacco under his lip and, like a shark that knows it could die if it stops moving, doesn't through the entire scene -- Suzanne, get Shapiro on the phone. Are you thinking Rincon? Yeah, he's lost faith for the season. think he's gonna dump him. Hardcore. They wait as Suzanne dials the Indians' staring at the speakerphone that sits like a little island in the middle of the conference table. Shapiro on two. Mark. Billy. Let's be honest. premiere setup man is not going to get you any closer to the playoffs. Are you referring to Rincon? He's a luxury you can't afford. And you can? There's half a million on his contract and at least one other suitor. By at least one, you mean one? Who is it? I'd rather not say. San Francisco. I'll call you back. He hangs up. Stares down Peter. What do you think we can get for Magnante? Nothing. (continues to stare What's left on Venafro's contract? Two-seventy-five. Suzanne -- get me Sabean. If we can get San Francisco interested in Venafro, Shapiro's only got one buyer for Rincon. Us. Pete gets busy on his computer. On three. Sabes. Billy. You like Venafro. can let you have him for almost nothing. (smelling a rat) Why would you do that, Billy? Because I'm amazing. Uh-huh. All want is a couple of bucks and a sweetener. Throw in, say... Billy snaps his fingers at Peter -- Anderson. Anderson. like Anderson. No, you don't. don't even like him. don't know why I'm doing this -- but let's do it anyway. Venafro for Michaelson? Anderson. Anderson. See, don't even know his name. I'll think (about) -- Think about it and call me back. He hangs up. Get Shapiro back on. Billy and Pete stare at each other in silence. Two! You can't afford him, Billy. You sure about that? get the impression the market for Rincon is softening. could be wrong. Call whoever's interested and make sure they're still interested. And call me back. He hangs up. What about the Mets for Venafro? You just offered him to the Giants. Suzanne -- Steve Phillips! Get me Steve Phillips. Pete works his computer. Between Bonds, Nen, Kent and Snow, they're never gonna do it. Totally agree. We just need them to cool on Rincon. Phillips on two. Steve-O. Billy. hear you're looking for a left-handed reliever. What do you think of Venafro? can make it quick and easy for you. What's the angle? No angle. Who am getting fleeced for? Hang on a second. He puts him on hold. Peter is already scrolling through the Mets' farm system, his eyes darting around the stats. Bennett maybe? How old? Twenty-six. Twenty-six and in Double-A? Forget it. Duncan? No. Cerda? No. Furbush? Furbush? No. Eckerton? Eckerton. Eckerton, that's the guy. Billy punches the phone off hold. Eckerton. Eckerton? like Eckerton. You don't even know who Eckerton is. The phone on Pete's desk rings. Peter answers a second blinking line. Hello? Is Venafro hurt? Oh, hi. No, he's not hurt. He's fine. This is just a situation for us. It's Steve. Last couple of times out, he got hammered. I'm on with Steve. Not his fault. We misused him. Steve Schott. Tell him to hold. (to Steve Phillips) Look. Steve. Here's the deal. I'm being straight with you. I'm getting Rincon. It's a done deal. It's done. heard the Giants -- No, the Giants want Venafro. And told them they can have him for Michaelson... -- but I'd rather deal with you. Because you can give me Eckerton and two hundred and twenty-five thousand cash and the Giants can't. Billy's look to Peter says, Doesn't hurt to ask. As they listen to silence on Phillips' side of the call -- Yes, understand it's impolite to keep you holding. I'll think about it. Of course. Think. But whoever calls me back first gets Venafro. He hangs up. Looks for the blinking light that belongs to his owner. He hung up. Silence. Then -- If you could have the power of flight or invisibility, which would you choose? What? Invisibility or flight? Invisibility. That's what Casey said. Why? You'd have total access. Besides, everyone else would choose flight. Quiet. Why isn't anybody calling? The phone rings. Shapiro's on two. Billy picks up. Listens. Fist pump. Great. Lemme talk to my owner. Call you right back. Get Steve. Phillips or Schott? Why would call Phillips back? Schott. Tell him I'm on the other line. Right. Peter dials. Billy can't sit. Mr. Schott, it's Peter Brand. Sorry left you on hold. Billy asked me to call you back. He's on another line. Tell him we need two hundred and twenty- five grand for Rincon. Billy says he needs two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars for Ricardo Rincon. Please? Yes, added the please. (listens; to Billy) No. Billy thinks intensely. Finally -- Tell him I'll pay it, but when sell him next year for twice that, keep the money. Billy says he'll pay for Rincon himself, sell him next year, and keep the profit. Peter listens to whatever Steve Schott is saying, then -- Okay. Thank you. He says he'll pay for Rincon. High five. Great! Shit. What are we forgetting? Get me Shapiro! -- as he grabs his cell phone and hits speed dial. Wait, never mind! (beat, then into Mark. Yeah, it's Billy. Here's the deal. don't want Rincon pitching against me tonight. Tell him to change his clothes. got you the money and accept your gratitude. It's done. He hangs up. Fist bump. We gotta let someone go. It's Mags. It's gotta be Mags. call not it. Billy dials an extension. Art. Billy. The good news is Ricardo Rincon's heading over to the clubhouse. The bad news is you got to tell Mags he threw his last pitch for the Oakland A's last night. No. What do you mean, no. No, as in no. I'm not doing it. You do it. You did it, so you do it. Art hangs up. Billy slams the speakerphone. It's not the phone's fault. Suzanne, we're gonna need a new speakerphone. We gotta catch Mags before Rincon comes over. He leaves. Billy comes through the clubhouse past his team suiting up to where Magnante is adjusting his knee braces next to his locker, and sits with him. Hey, Billy. know I've been struggling lately. But we're coming into the home stretch, and promise I'm gonna turn it -- need you to stop getting dressed. Magnante isn't sure he heard right, but the silence tells him he did. Eventually - Traded? Billy shakes his head, no. I'm sorry for the crap news. know it hurts. Mike. can't have 26 guys in the clubhouse. Magnante nods. Alright. Thanks. Billy gets up to leave. As he exits, he sees Peter enter with Rincon, standing with his new uniform in his arms, looking like a prison inmate. Oops. Billy joins them. Hey, Ricardo. Hola, senor. Hola. Hey, know this must seem a bit sudden, but the Oakland A's have been trying to get you for a long time. You're gonna love it here. The guys are fun. Muy divertido. pitch tonight? don't know if you're gonna pitch tonight. But you're on our team tonight. no wanna pitch tonight. Right. So... where you from? Veracruz, Mexico. Well, you're a lot closer to home. Why don't you hang out there for five menudos and we'll get you a uniform and everything. (to side room) Hey guys, clear the room, huh? Say hi to Ricardo Rincon. As the other players file out and say hello... Billy, Tara and Casey at dinner. Tara and me were thinking -- Dad... Tara and -- She is correct. Tara and were thinking about going to Point Reyes to the beach. That'd be fun. Me go, too? And I'll work on my grammar. (beat, then) Dad... are you going to lose your job? What? Where did you hear that, honey? The internet. No, I'm not going to lose my job. Don't go on the internet or watch or read the papers or talk to people. I'm not talking to people, I'm just reading stuff. Don't worry. You don't believe me? Ask Tara. He's not (losing his job). Your dad is a brilliant man. He's the best in baseball. But say that you did -- just saying -- would you have to move away? No, honey. Absolutely not. And even if did, I'm not going anywhere. told you not to worry about me. People say a lot of crazy things and they don't always know what they're talking about. It's just gossip. Like gossipers at school. You can't always believe what you read. Sometimes you need to scratch underneath the surface and find who the authority is. And once you do find out who the authorities are, ignore them at all costs. You can always ask your dad. Everything's fine, honey. I'm not going anywhere. The only way would lose my job is if someone was to give me a better one. Don't worry about me, okay? Dad knows what he's doing. Pinkie swear? Pinkie swear. of the West standings over PLAYED--from the start of the season until now--the teams shifting positions as the "games-out" and winning percentage numbers change like an adding machine, too fast for us to really follow, but then: The calculations abruptly lock and we're given enough time to understand where we--and Oakland--are after 120 West Seattle --- .610 Anaheim 2.0 .593 Oakland 4.5 .571 Texas 21.5 .427 The A's begin this road trip on a 10 game winning streak, picking up two games on the Mariners and the Angels, and it should be noted this is their longest winning streak in six years heading into-- mounted in center field. to the lens... Peter sits with Hatteberg, reviewing his hits on a monitor. This is a chart of what you should and shouldn't be swinging at. These circles represent different pitches. Red is hit, blue is out, yellow's missed or foul, green is chased, white taken. This is you versus Conway. What do you see? I'm chasing a lot of high and outside. The red is where most hits happen. That's where you want to be swinging. You don't want to be swinging at the junk at the top of the strike zone. We'd rather take those strikes, `cause you're not going to hit `em out of the park. And you're good about that, patient. Right now you're averaging about 4 pitches per at-bat. 4 per bat? Yeah, and that's great. One of the reasons why we love you. You're draining a pitcher's pitches. Now, guys like Bonds and Jason Giambi average a little over 5. That's top tier. Does this chart make sense to you? Yeah. I'll get on base more if lay off anything high. This is awesome. So you have a breakdown of this from every game? Every game. Your instincts are in the right place. This isn't something they teach you in little league. This is something fundamental we're looking for -- how to wear out a pitcher's arm. If you're about to face Conway and wondering what you should and shouldn't swing at, come in here and watch how you're tending. You can click on any one of these pitches and watch it happen. Pretty great, right? Show me some of the stuff I'm chasing up high... of hundreds of at bats registering and changing modalities to produce graphs and numbers. to reveal we're now in Peter and Bradford review footage. Peter analyzes the data with Billy as they throw a ball back and forth. Everybody thinks the first pitch is what's most important, but it's not. It's the first two out of three pitches that matter the most. The difference between 1-2 and 2-1 is the difference between a scrub and an All Star. So you're saying if we can get our guys to lay off the first pitch it'll put us in the driver's seat? Any sort of extra discipline in the first three pitches will help us. game is on in the background. Billy makes various comments the the screen -- That's a problem right there. Terrance jogging to first. Mr. Justice. That's what we pay you for. Chad Bradford, you deceptive son of a bitch, love you. He's a pain in the ass, but that Giambi gets on base. Another train of thought -- Hatteberg once had 18 walks in 30 at bats. My whole career only had eighteen walks. Actually... 11. Shut up. And now we have Migs, let's make a deal. I'll pay you fifty bucks for every away fastball you hit to opposite field, but you've gotta pay me fifty for every one of those you pull. Tejada immediately starts thinking about it. is working out. Billy pokes his head in. Hey, Did your car get egged? Yeah. think just got an e-mail from the culprit. He said he was tired of paying good money just to watch you jogging around the bases. What the hell does that have to do with anything? don't know, man. Don't worry about it. Billy exits. Long calls after -- Who brings eggs to the ballpark anyway?! Billy and Mecir walk down the hall with the smelly stain. Man, you're not fooling anyone but yourself out there. You're falling further and further behind. In your mind, what's the problem? Mecir mumbles something. can't understand you with your hand over your mouth. Sorry, Billy. It's just, the smell... Right? It's that. And it's growing. They stare at the stain in silence. Finally -- I'm gonna grab a shower. Yup. Hatteberg in the clubhouse. Billy enters. Hey, Scottie. What's on your mind? feel like I'm hurting the team. At first base I'm making a lot of errors. I'm gonna cost us a hundred runs. 16.5 actually. But as a hitter, you will create 70 runs. 70 runs wins us an awful lot of ball games. can live with that. Can you live with that? appreciate that, but know you're just pulling those numbers out of your ass. I'm pulling them out of Pete's, actually. And another thing. When a guy reaches first base, be social. Social? Like a greeter at the Gap. guy steps into your office, chat him up. You're well read, you went to college. Have some fun out there. Relax. Yes sir. Scottie, you deserve to be here. is erasing the percentage of games left that they need to win and writing in a number-- More information. of all of the changes to the board over the following two weeks. It's the Twins vs. the A's. stands at first, stoic. Scott figures "What the hell?" and turns to him. What are you guys getting up to tonight? The focused Twins player looks at Scott like he's crazy. Bed by ten o'clock. Game time. don't buy it. I'm sore, man. Beat up. Day in, day out. Where d'you guys go next? Houston. Houston? You ever get up to Boundary Waters up there in Minnesota? It's beautiful. went on a trip up there. Fishing trip. Caught some walleye. That's good fishing. Scott chatting with a on first. "Mankevich" is polish? Yes, sir. Crack! The ball's in play. It's thrown to Hatteberg, who tags out the stunned player. is on first. Where'd you go to school? University of Arizona. What are you guys getting up to tonight? See what the city's about -- San Francisco. What are you up to? don't know. Depends on if we beat you today. Probably celebrating. So my says gotta be more social. What was your name? Jaqcue. I'm Scott. How are you doing, Scott? Pretty good. You got kids? Yeah... Crack! Hatteberg catches the ball, making another out. The standings graphic shows the A's have just moved up into a three-way tie for first place-- Oakland's offense has exploded, scoring 40 runs in their last four games and extending their streak to 17 in a row which is an American League record going back to 1954 and just three shy of the West Oakland --- .619 Anaheim 4.0 .591 Seattle 4.5 .586 Texas 22.5 .450 smokes the last batter on a called third strike to end the game against the Twins, and the rushes in to congratulate him-- looks down at his blackberry, sees the result and makes a small fist pump. Who would have thought in April I'd be saying this: The A's won their 18th game in a row, that's two-shy of tying, three- shy of beating the American League record- --where the energy is electric. West Oakland --- .633 Anaheim 3.5 .609 Seattle 7.0 .583 Texas 25.5 .449 This is something special now and far be it for me to jinx it by saying how many consecutive games the A's have won-- Well you said it not me. Tickets are torn and purses searched as record breaking numbers of fans pour into the stadium. None of the Oakland fans in their cars down there have forgotten the A's inglorious history-making choke in Game 5 of the last October and tonight-- It's like a tomb. The are getting ready without music or chat. Justice steps up to deliver a pre-game pep talk. Hey, listen up fellas... bring it up real quick. We got some older guys on this team, we got some younger guys on this team. What we got right now is a chance for everyone to make history. don't want to get sappy and corny, but this is what we play for. We've been playin' real good for 19. Let's get 20. We get 20, they can't take that away from us until they do it themselves. Guys that are starting tonight, keep playing like you've been playing. Guys not starting, be ready. Huddie, you got the ball -- shove it up their ass tonight. Let's play some ball! Let's go! September 4, 2002 Kansas City Royals at Oakland A's --one game shy of 20 consecutive wins, they have a shot at redemption. How rare is it to win 20 games in a row? This rare: No American League team has ever done it. heads east on 580. His cell phone rings and he hits the speaker button for the truck. Don't tell me the score, Peter. It's me, Billy. How you doin', leggy. Nope. Sharon? You hangin' in there? Yeah. There's silence... Hello? Sharon? "Go into real estate". What a stupid thing to say. didn't even realize until that moment how much he wanted to hear her say that...He's not sure what to say back. appreciate that, thanks. Good luck. Casey wants to talk to you. Are you on your way to the stadium? No, I'm on my way to Visalia to see our minor league team. Dad - turn around. You have to see the game. No, don't. Turn around. I'll talk to you later, sweetheart. love you. He hangs up, drives a little longer...letting what Casey said sink in. Then... Shhhit. ...he turns on the radio. Tim Hudson is carving through this Royals line-up and at the end of three, it's the A's 11 and Kansas City nothing. Oh God. Ohhhh God. sees the sign for the next exit coming up. He makes a decision and quickly crosses to the right, just making the exit. is striding through an underground corridor which is echoing with the cheers of 55,000 fans. emerges from a tunnel to a sight Billy's denied himself for 138 games: The lit-up ballpark with a game in play. From the field, we see Billy finding his place in the seats behind home plate. Peter is already there. 11-0 at the bottom of the 3rd. Unfortunately the idyllic moment is short-lived as Dye strikes out swinging and the teams swap places. The A's take the field with pitching. Billy looks around. He sees the scoreboard, a with a big funky cowboy hat, the charged-up crowd in the stands, it's like the Coliseum at Rome. of the Royals singles to center field. of the Royals singles to left field. But the Oakland fans are still jubilant and do the wave. Then a big error from Tejada puts runners on 1st, 2nd and 3rd Ibanez and Randa). As if we've entered the Twilight Zone, it becomes twilight and of the Royals singles to right, bringing Ibanez and Randa home, and Mayne to 3rd. Ibanez and Randa high-five each other at the plate, passing Billy as they head to their dugout. Okay, the Royals are on the board now: 11-2, but just barely. Until- of the Royals singles to center field, bringing Mayne home. Then of the Royals doubles to left field. Justice makes an embarrassing fall trying to catch it, and Brown and Perez score. They high-five and pass Billy as they leave the plate, the second time he's seen that, and suddenly the Royals have 5. Reaction shot Justice, Tejada, Tucker on 2nd, Art Howe, the Royals' dugout, a pitcher's conference with Peterson and Hudson. And finally Billy, who of the Royals singles to left-center field -- Neither Justice or Long get it, it lands between them. And they have Randa makes a sloppy single to left field... this one goes between Justice and Tejada. of A's at bat: Hernandez grounds out, strikes out, Mabry grounds out... stunned stands up with his arms out in a gesture. While the A's are still up, this is excruciating for the fans. Kansas City's scored five and Oakland's lead is down to six as Art Howe comes out to the mound to pull Tim Hudson. Art Howe comes out of the dugout, gives the signal for "underhander," takes the ball from Hudson. He'll go with the submariner, Chad Bradford. We see in the sold-out stadium experiencing the height of tension and excitement in sports. Chad Bradford comes off the bullpen mound to relieve Hudson, and begins counting his steps - One, two, three, four - Chad arriving at the mound taking the game ball from Art, who we see is genuinely supportive and encouraging to Chad. Chad finishing his warm-up pitches. know what it is to be in need and to have plenty. am content. can do all things through Christ who gives me is just as tense as the fans. (to himself but to Okay Chad, let's see it. walks Mayne. An angry fan throws toilet paper onto center field, the one thing Long manages to pick up. The crowd grows anxious. CHAD's submariner pitch to the next batter, walks him. trots down to first and there are now two runners on. Some have to cover their eyes. There's a pitcher conference. Art Howe simmers in frustration. He signals Rincon to warm up. The fans aren't happy either. of the Royals grounds to Tejada, who throws home for the force, and misses. Now it's 11-6! Howe pulls Bradford. Rincon throws a controversial strike out. The Royals batter, protests, and fans go crazy Brown scores, 11-7 now, Royals chipping away that lead, Howe pulls Rincon. Tam comes in to relieve him. Sweeney's up. In rapid succession, we seem him battle off of Tam. He's got two strikes on him, more toilet paper flies on the field, Bowie comes in to warm up which Tam sees, then - 11-10! This is excruciating. is already gone. is on the mound. There's a Royal, on 2nd. According to the scoreboard, it's 2 outs, 2 strikes. If Koch throws a strike, the game is over. The fans are fucking feverish. of the Royals singles to left and Pellow scores. The game is now In their dugout, Royals He's ended the inning, but in the A's dugout, Koch slams the wall. The scoreboard shows us that it's still tied in the bottom of the ninth. Nobody's out. grabs a bat and walks to the plate. Then, inexplicably, Howe turns to- Hattie. Grab a bat. actually points to himself and mouths, Me? Let's go. pulls a bat from the rack and heads to the on-deck circle. He only manages a warmup pitch or two before - Billy is watching on a muted television as he sees Dye fly out to right field. As Hatte approaches the plate, he kills the As STEELE's booming voice echoes: Pinch hitting for Eric Byrnes--Scott Hatteberg. Scott's wife, watches from the seats. She clutches her face. lets the first pitch go by. Ball! Art Howe looks like he can't stand it any longer. In the dugout, Koch looks like a psychopath ready to kill. steps out of the box to catch his breath. He steps back in and stares at the exact spot in space he thinks the pitch will leave the pitcher's hand. The pitch. swings. Crack! 55,000 erupt. The A's leap to the front of the dugout steps and watch. We see the ball ascending on a strong trajectory, but before we can know for sure where it's headed, BILLY's sitting on the floor with his back against the wall, trying to breathe. He looks like he's in pain. He can't move. He hears the crowd outside. His Blackberry buzzes: "hatte homered. a's 12, ryls 11" Billy flips on the With sound off, he watches silent images of his team swarming the mound in (archival footage) mixed in with Art Howe celebrating with them. The place is going crazy. is screaming as she watches her husband get mauled by his teammates at the plate. BILLY's still contemplating making history as celebrating players flood into the locker room just outside. Billy looks through a portal on the door. He's trapped in here now. He crosses into the The place is packed with players, coaches and news crews. There's no champagne spraying but they feel like they won the World Series and in fact have done something much more rare. Billy is trying to make a fast unnoticed exit. After pushing through the crowd, he walks outside of the club house into the - where the players' families and wives are waiting. Billy sees walking toward him-- Mr. Beane? I'm Elizabeth Hatteberg. We met at my house last Christmas. Sure. Thank you. Thank me? Thank you. Whatever you put in those Christmas cookies, keep-- starts to cry-- Whoa. It's okay. I'm sorry. It's alright. You don't know what it's like to have everyone think you're a failure. doesn't say anything but of course he does. Well...You never thought that, and that's (the worst possible did. And he knows did. takes this in a second... Yeah he does know you did. He's talked to you? No. just know. That's all over now. Your husband just took a Jason Grimsley two-seam fastball and parked it in the upper deck in left field for a pinch-hit walk-off home run in a record breaking game. Go tell him about it. looks at him a moment...and then starts crying No it's okay now, just go. goes off to find her husband. sees standing there. Gilligan. Congratulations. and are eating. Aw, man. spend the season trying to reduce it to numbers and we won on romance. Suddenly it's the Natural with Hatteberg. Scott Hatteberg. To twenty. To twenty. You should've seen Elizabeth's face when it went right over. She showed up afterwards. What did she say? was a big moment for them. You know everyone wrote him off? You didn't. You found him and you put that together. know. It was beautiful. But you know... it's not gonna mean a thing. He's upset. She knows it. Here's the thing -- we changed the game. We got this year, maybe next, then they're gonna catch on. This is our moment. want to go the distance. wanna shove it up the Yankees' ass. Not just the Yankees, but... these guys deserve it. You deserve it. Honey, 20 games. It's a record. That's right, it's just a record. It gets buried in some book. Come on, tell me who won 19? don't even know. It's 4th place at the Olympics. Any other team wins the World Series this year... great. We're still in the record books. But if we win, we've changed the game. We've put it on its head and shoved it up their ass. If we don't, they're gonna erase us. The same shot as at the beginning: the Coliseum from high above, only this time the final game of the division series is being played at home. Minnesota Twins at Oakland A's The camera pans down the huge scoreboard. It's excruciating. The numbers on the board tell us it's been an incredibly close game but the A's are losing by one run in the bottom of the ninth with two outs and nobody on. Ray Durham stands in at the plate. Strike one to the Durham as we hear the venerable voice of ESPN's Joe Morgan, who's speaking post-game. The flaw in the A's thinking, and this comes from the top of their organization-- is their failure to comprehend you have to manufacture runs in the post season. Durham fouls off a pitch. Strike two. You have to steal. You have to bunt. You have to sacrifice. You have to trust in small ball, not Billy Ball. Durham swings at the fastball and connects, but it's a pop fly to second which a easily nabs. The throws his glove in the air and the runs out to the mound as the rest of the Twins run to the middle of the field to begin their victory celebration. Durham turns away and heads back to the dugout. The A's have lost the series. They think they've devised a science to win games. They think it resides in a computer. They thumb their nose at fundamentals. At tradition. At Baseball. Harrowed by the defeat, stares at the listening to Joe Morgan. They're bean counters in Oakland. That's bean with an "e" at the end. They're card counters at the blackjack table who forget the house always wins. Peter a wooden chair to pieces with a baseball bat. Peter, in exhaustion, his eyes glued again to the screen watching shots of euphoric Twins reveling and A's stunned at their misfortune. begins to slowly move towards the pile of celebrating players on the mound and as we near, the sound begins to fade and the as do the and in an empty stadium, towards the dugout, where the last of the brooms the floor. down a dimly lit cinder block corridor, and finally into the - where we discover a solitary figure. The camera comes to settle on the Oakland A's player, still in uniform, hours after the game has ended, sitting with his face in his hands. After a long, deep breath he sits up and we discover that it's Billy, 10 years prior. Billy, still in uniform, walks down the long corridor that leads to the GM's office, his cleats clicking on the concrete halls. This is weird, Billy. BILLY's standing in front of the A's wearing his uniform pants and a t-shirt. It's like a politician quitting a campaign to become a staffer. Do you even know what a scout does? I've been scouted since was 15. And you're ready to say, "I'm not a baseball player"? I'm not a baseball player. Ready to do this? Pete nods. Billy calls out -- Suzanne? Get Schott on. You ever been to Boston? The speakerphone rings. Billy answers. We need to talk about the Red Sox. So heard. John Henry reached out to you? Yes. But haven't spoken with him yet. That's what he said. want your blessing before do. Well, how am supposed to react to all of this? You're under contract, Billy. You extended. know that, Steve, but I'd like to talk to them. want to see what they have to say. You're asking me to let them talk to you? Yes. With your permission. Well, can't do that unless know Peter is in place as my Pete? I'm not letting you take him with you, and have no idea if he's willing to stay if you aren't here. How do even know can come to terms with him, given the extremely disadvantaged bargaining position you're putting me in? Well, think you'll agree this is a great opportunity for him. can't believe he's not going to make a deal. Peter is frozen. Neither Steve nor Billy are acting like he's even in the room. If you want out of your contract, want their whole team and a lot of cash. We've invested in you. haven't asked to get out of my contract, Steve, just asked if could talk to them. And said won't give you permission unless know have Peter! You can't leave me with a vacant front office. Then talk to Peter. will. Silence. All right. You know what? I've made it a point never to stand in the way of a man wanting to make more money. They made the call, the genie's out of the bottle. had faith in your judgement when named you that's why did it and have faith in it now. Good luck, Billy. Billy hangs up. long beat. Peter looks at Billy. Well, didn't see that coming. think you should think about staying. You're one of the architects of this thing, it belongs as much to you as it does to me. Okay... okay... How you doing Pete? I'm a little overwhelmed right now. think need to process what's happening. Why don't you take the day off. Billy regards culinary treats presented fancifully in a towncar that transports him to Fenway Park. We establish the famous home of the Red Sox before finding standing on home plate. He looks around at the historic stadium... Billy Beane! the new owner of the Boston Red Sox, is shouting at him from the owner's box. gives a kind of wave. Due respect to the Coliseum, but this is a ball park. Yes it is. It is. You ever play here? swinging hard at a pitch in the dirt. No. That's a shame. Let's walk the field. and begin a stroll around the perimeter of Fenway. Hey, I'm sorry kept you waiting but believe it or not there was snow on 84. The second week in October. The car turns on to Yawkee Way and it's 53 degrees and this. How can there be an entirely different weather system here than there is three miles from here? Is that global warming or a sign that there's no such thing? don't know. What's that Billy Joel song? Oh the snow it was falling from Stockbridge to Boston. And the hilltops seemed something because of that frosting. think that's James Taylor and I'm certain those aren't the words. Well whatever, it was snowing from Stockbridge to Boston so I'm sorry I'm late. We'll have lunch in a little bit but why don't have some coffee sent up. (he's already got his cell phone open) Denise? (back to We've got espresso, cappuccino, latte, we've got a machine that makes whatever you want. We've got free soda. heard about that. Can you have some coffee in there for us? Thank you. He snaps the phone shut. Billy and John admire the view. sets down a tray of coffee and exits. It's her birthday and need to get her a present but she's usually the one who does that for me so do you have any ideas? scarf? You mean like wool? No meant something that women wear with, you know, a decorative -- Sure! Excellent. And where would get something like that? John, no disrespect, just lost in five for the second year in a row -- give her a bowling ball for all care. Steve Schott told me he's offering you a new contract. Yes he is. So why'd you return my call? You're the Red Sox, and think can help you. think can do something about the Curse of the Bambino. heard you hired Bill James. Why it took someone so long to hire that guy is beyond me. Because baseball hates him. Money buys a lot of things. One is the luxury to disregard what baseball thinks. That must be nice. (beat, then) was grateful to get your call. looks at a moment... You were grateful. Yeah. For 41 million you built a playoff team. You lost Damon, Giambi, Isringhausen and Pena and you won two more games without them than you did with them. And we begin a slow push-in on this is the first person in baseball other than his assistant who doesn't think he's crazy. You won the exact same number of games as the Yankees but the Yankees paid 1.4 million dollars per win and you paid two- hundred and sixty thousand. Yes, want you to be my General Manager. know you're taking it in the teeth. The first guy through a wall always gets hurt. But those are dying voices. Any that doesn't tear down their team and rebuild it using your model is gonna be a dinosaur. JOHN's taken a piece of paper out of his pocket and slides it to -- What's this? My first offer. opens it, looks at it for less than a second, and looks back up at Billy looks out at the Boston scenery. He steals a glance at the paper in his hand, John's offer, pensive... Billy comes into the locker room and gives it a look. Billy sits at a table. baseball down in front of him. He looks up to see where it came from. is standing in the doorway. Heads up! Jesus. What the hell -- Sorry. What the hell was that? don't know. Sorry. How was Boston? Impressive. You're giving me Youkilis, Billy. Why would ever do that? Come on Billy, Schott's going to want something in exchange for letting you out of your contract and want Youkilis. Oh, what is that, your voice? You can't have him. And Cash. And a player to be named later. You already have my job. What else do you want from me? don't want your job. Why did you take it? You didn't leave me much choice. Did Henry make you a good offer? It doesn't matter. Did he make you a good offer? It was fine. What was it? It doesn't matter. Pete just stares at him. Finally, Billy reaches into his pocket, takes out the folded piece of paper and hands it to Peter. Peter looks at it... He offered to make you the highest paid in pro sports. Do love the Red Sox? don't know. I've never heard you say you did. So why am doing this? You're not doing it for the money. I'm not? You're doing it for what the money says. It says what it says to any player who gets big money: that they're worth it. The offer says that. The money itself is redundant. made one personal decision based on money in my life and swore to never do that again. So you're not going to Boston? haven't decided. It's all over the news that it's a done deal. Look at this place. What a dump. so wanted to win here. think you've already won, Billy. No Pete, we lost. You haven't given yourself time to get over it, it's only been three days. I'm not even over last year yet. don't get over it. I've got something in the video room, come with me. really can't look at video right now. No, come with me. It's not much more than a home movie but you'll get the idea. Who is it? The Visalia Oaks and their 240 pound catcher, Jeremy Brown, who's scared of running to second. This was in a game six weeks ago. hits the remote and the tape starts. The quality is poor and the camera is focused only on Jeremy. This guy's gonna start him off with a fastball low and in because he hasn't read the book on our guy and doesn't know that low and in is where he eats. Jeremy takes him to deep center -- We see connect and the ball fly off the bat but the camera stays on running to first. slows down the picture with the remote -- and he knows that if he runs it's a stand-up double and he's running. Go pal. And now he's gonna do something he never does. He's gonna round first base, he's gonna take the turn. Please tell me he's safe at second. No. Because right here -- slips and stumbles to the ground. -- is what he's always been afraid of. It's all he can do to get himself back to first. has been scrambling in the dirt to get safely back to first base. What is that? That's the first base coach. Why's he laughing? I'm gonna fire that guy, why the hell is he -- Everybody's laughing. JEREMY's looking around the field now, looking at his own dugout. We can't see what he sees but he's confused. And now Jeremy finds out why. Watch his face because this is art. He's just found out the ball went 60 feet over the fence. He'd hit a home run but he didn't know it. And JEREMY's face explodes into a smile. He slaps hands with the first base coach and begins his trot around the bases. stares at this. He takes the remote and backs it up a little so he can see Jeremy's face again. How can anybody not be romantic about baseball? It was a metaph-- know it was a metaphor. That was a hell of a baseball season, boss. The Island of Misfit Toys. Okay. And with that, Billy's mind begins to go elsewhere. No resolution, no decision, other than to get up and wander on. Billy stops in front of a door, checks to see if it's open, it is and he enters. Billy Stands and takes it in. Billy stands and takes it in. Billy stands at area from which a mysterious smell still emanates. Billy haunts the field, talking to himself. Eventually he stands at the plate, and has an imaginary at bat. Pete watches Billy from the pitch tracking monitor as he argues with an imaginary ump before hitting an imaginary inside the park home run that ends with a slide into home. Billy wanders over to the pitcher's mound. Lies down. His of perfect sky... BILLY's driving along and listening to the continued of talk radio criticism. keeps listening a moment, then reaches in the glove box and pulls out a marked "Dad's Mix". slips it in the player. The sound of the radio immediately snaps off and the momentary silence is soon broken by CASEY's Hey, Dad. picked these songs out just for you. And then the first track on the comes on And smiles. He continues on down the freeway into dusk, as-- David Justice at the plate. As he takes ball four and trots down to first, the image freezes - Legend: David Justice retired after the 2002 season, leaving baseball with a team-leading on-base percentage with most walks. Scott Hatteberg, looking comfortable on the infield dirt finally, dives for a line drive - freeze. Legend: Scott Hatteberg played three more seasons with the A's, then signed with Cincinnati in 2006 - as a first baseman. He retired in 2007. Chad Bradford goes into his windup from Mars. As his hand scrapes the dirt - freeze. Legend: Chad Bradford went to the Red Sox in 2005. In 2008, he was traded to Tampa Bay who went on to the World Series with a payroll even lower than the A's. Kevin Youkilis, in a Red Sox uniform, shimmies at the plate. As he lays off ball four and the umpire points to first - freeze. Legend: Boston never traded to Billy - or anyone else - their Greek God of Walks, Kevin Youkilis. He was part of the historic World Series Championship Red Sox of 2004, and is still with the club. Peter, in a Yale Bulldogs uniform, scoops a grounder to second. As he throws out a Yale Bulldog - freeze. Legend: Peter Brand left Oakland in 2004 to become the General Manager of the Dodgers. He's now with the San Diego Padres. Billy - 18 years old - in his Mount Carmel High uniform, takes his stance at the plate with the supreme confidence of youth. The pitch comes. He swings. And as his bat makes contact - freeze. Legend: Billy Beane is still the General Manager of the Oakland A's. The Coliseum's floodlights switch off and the green of the grass darkens - Moneyball : Steven Zaillian Aar