Written by Nathan Parker Story by Duncan Jones November, 2007 Helium3 is a gas ejected from the surface of the sun and blown through space by solar winds. It plays an essential role in Cold Fusion, often toted as the solution to humanity's future energy needs. There is one major problem... Helium3 is extremely scarce on Earth. The gas does, however, exist in abundance on the Earth's only natural satellite: The Moon. Should we turn to Cold Fusion in the future, it is conceivable that man will mine the Moon for Helium3 and bring the precious gas back to Earth... We hear something -- a machine -- and Constant. Rhythmic. Though the sound is slightly familiar, we're not sure what it is yet. Hold for a few seconds and then The sound belongs to a regular old like you see in most gyms across the world. Running on it: mid thirties, thick beard, handsome, striking blue eyes. Sam's face is flushed and glistening with sweat. He lunges for a towel draped over the treadmill's bar, dabs his face as he runs. We see gray, powdery landscape stretching beneath a Aerial view of the Earth's only natural satellite, the camera roaming about a hundred feet off the surface. Desolation. Serious, uncompromising, desolation. This place makes Antarctica look like Tokyo. And utter silence. Eventually the camera arrives at a moon base, towards it -- Sam takes a shower, treading in a tight circle beneath the nozzle, eyes closed, hot water blasting his face. His hair still wet from the shower, Sam sits before a dressed in a "Lunar Industries" boiler suit, a zip up the front, colorful patches sewn into the arms. He begins to record a message. Tess. Hi. It's me. How are you, sweetheart? It's the morning here. In a few minutes Gerty and will sit down for breakfast, go over the day's itinerary. As Sam continues his message, we are given a of the mining base. Beginning with: This is where you want to be if the shit hits the fan. The base's equivalent of wall of computers and flickering digital displays. Today begins my 154th week on Selene. officially have two weeks to go before climb into that Return Vehicle... small space craft attached to the base. It is essentially a tiny room with a coffin like, sealed bed in the middle of it: a cryogenic with an array of complicated controls surrounding it. And blast home. Sam spends most of his time here. It is kitchen and play room combined. We a television set, an armchair, a Ping-Pong table, the treadmill. never dreamed I'd make it this far. On a table, we also a carved out of It's a Intricately done down to the tiniest details. There were times, as you know... We go even to the model, seeing that there are actual people, actual characters in the little town; actual buildings: a a etc. Clearly someone has put a ton of work into this thing. ...when thought was going to crack up. And the tour of the base continues. Onto a new room. dark storage area Sam has repurposed to grow a handful of plants. They sit surrounded by darkness, glowing under pools of artificial light. But think I've come out the other side now. strange angular room, obviously purposeful, but its design more geared to a computer than a human being. single bed dominates. In many ways, this place is all about contradictions. The empty terrain surrounding the mining base, as viewed from the Monitoring Station window. Across the landscape a mountain rises from the morning shadows. It's bleak, it's beautiful. Some kind of rake or shovel half buried in the powdery soil, like a child's toy abandoned in a sand box. It's barren, yet filled with riches. From up here it is easy to see why the Earth is sometimes referred to as "the blue marble." swirl of color. The earth is thousands and thousands of miles away, but sometimes looks so close feel like could reach out and snatch it with my hand. Sam's bed -- New York Jets poster on the wall -- a few knickknacks bedside, rock samples in jars, a lucky tambourine Sam got in Mexico some years ago -- a red stress ball -- a photograph by the bed in a frame -- I'm incredibly lonely, yet I'm never alone... We to the by the bed. Of a slightly younger and clean-shaven Sam with his arms wrapped around his wife of four years, Because have you. Tess is a far cry from the stereotypical Astronaut's Wife of the 1960's/70's with the plastic smile and beehive hairdo. Tess is modern, sophisticated, and jaw-droppingly beautiful. She looks like she'd be a hard woman to leave behind. Note: In the photograph Tess is visibly And have Eve. don't take you guys for granted. You know that now. Back with Sam at the Comms Unit as he wraps up the message. Please kiss Eve for me. And tell her daddy will only be away a little longer -- seventeen days longer, approximately. love you both dearly. Bye. And he sends the message. The main corridor connecting the different rooms. We've seen everything there is to see now. The base is small. Confined. Claustrophobic. It is easy to imagine how someone could crack up here. Sam leaves the Comms Room and heads down the corridor. state of the art robot, a 3000 -- known simply as -- is preparing Sam's breakfast. Gerty is in three sections and moves along a horizontal rail that runs throughout the base. He has a readout screen that perpetually spews data. His hands resemble pincers, but are perfectly nimble. For the purposes of helping run the base and looking after Sam, Gerty is as good as human, if not better. Sam enters. Morning, Gerty. Morning, Sam. How are you today? Fine. Fine. You? I'm very well. How's your headache? Much better, thanks, pal. Sam treats Gerty more like a person than a robot. Whether this is down to Gerty's intelligence or Sam's desperation for company isn't clear just yet. Note: Gerty talks like a well-educated older man. His language doesn't have a great deal of inflection (i.e. Monotone) but he is friendly enough. Sam switches a dial on a radio but gets nothing but static - - he sticks in a mini cd and skips the first few tracks. We hear brief clips of talk radio and shuttle through it before he allows it to play on, on some random American station -- an old weather report: ...it's a hot one on the East Coast, temperatures soaring to a high of ninety three degrees in New York City -- They zip around the tiny kitchen, together preparing Sam's breakfast, working as a team. We take in the whole Moon at once. Gray, colorless, eerie. From this distance the surface resembling Plaster of Paris. Sam sits before Selene's main computer, known as Data flickering off Sam's face. He is making a log entry. is running on the monitor. 8:32 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 1. All Harvesters running smoothly this morning. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 14.6 miles; Mark 16.8 miles... Sam continues with his entry while we Gerty is selecting food for the up-coming week, stacking ready-meals on a small fork-lift buggy. Pulsing rapidly. The "ping-ping-ping" of an alarm. Sam stands before the Big Board. The names of the four Harvesters (Matthew, Mark, Luke, John) in a collum. The red light is flashing next to Matthew. Sam presses an dips down, speaks into it. Gerty, we've got a live one on Mark. I'm going out now to rope her in. Okay, Sam. Sam heads off. Resembling an unmanned puppet. Sam begins to insinuate his body into the suit. Three Rovers (moon buggies) parked in their separate bays. The Rovers are caked in lunar soil, as though sand blasted. In his space suit Sam bends into one of the Rovers, starts the engine. Sam drives along, dwarfed by an enormous lunar bolder and the rising slopes of the valley beyond. toy car in this vast and alien terrain. The second in a fleet of four Harvesters (this one known as Mark) collecting lunar soil. The Harvester resembles a tank and kicks up clouds of dust. Booming, hulking, efficient. Sam catches up in his Rover and accelerates into the back of the Harvester up a couple of ramps. An intricate and dangerous maneuver he executes deftly. Sam is in an area of the Harvester -- a kind of hatch -- not dissimilar to a garage and known as Once safely inside Sam closes the door. He is able to breathe in the Belly without his helmet, which he duly removes. Sam steps up to a wall of computers. light is flashing to indicate one of the pods is filled with Helium3. Sam does his thing, eventually removing a keg-size pod of Helium3. He hauls it over to the Rover and sticks it in a special slot in the equivalent of the Rover's trunk. new pod -- an empty -- replaces the pod Sam just removed. Sam puts his helmet back on, returns to the Rover, reverses out of the Harvester carefully. Sam snakes through the soil on his way back to base, the tracks of the Rover as sharp as if they had been made through talcum powder. The Harvester churns into the distance. Sam loads the filled pod into a The Cargo Container is about the size of a fridge and can take a maximum of five pods. There are four pods already inside, Sam's new pod taking up the fifth and final slot. Sam is seated at the Comms Unit recording a message for his superiors back on Earth. Sam Bell reporting to Central. 10:14 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 1. (less formal) Overmeyers, Thompson? It's Sam. How goes it? I've got a full container of Helium3 ready to roll. The purity is pretty good, so assuming your last market prices are still relevant think you are looking at getting about 3 million dollars per kilo with this load. By the time this message reaches you it should be in transit. (a beat) Otherwise, everything running smoothly. There was a discrepancy between a couple of the modulators a couple of days ago, but Gerty and caught it in time, no big deal. Uh...how are things down there? Sam desperately wants to talk but has nothing very important to say. Then he remembers something. Oh, and just wanted to thank you for sending out the football feed. Almost felt live! (getting pissed off) Seriously, don't mean to be an asshole, but surely replacing one satellite cant be that fucking hard! haven't been able to have a conversation with my wife... My kid can talk now...! Fuck! Sam concentrates, getting a grip on his temper. Two weeks. Two weeks. (beat) Hey. Three years is a long haul. If you guys want to run some psych evals on me when get back, I'm happy to do it. It ain't Disney World up here. (a beat) That's it. Over and out. Sam reaches forward, sends the message. Sam is loading the Cargo Container into the base's He works with a sense of routine, far away, preoccupied. All of a sudden Sam He has the feeling someone is standing behind him. He slowly turns. is standing in the doorway watching him. She is perhaps fifteen or sixteen years old. yellow dress. Long, wheat-colored hair. Freckles. At once beautiful and haunting. Sam gets the of his life. He against the wall. to reveal Sam and the Girl facing off. Sam and The Girl arms at her sides, head tilted ever so slightly to one side. The Cargo Container is sent hurtling through space. It distracts Sam's attention, breaks his stare... And just like that, the Girl is gone. Sam is just staring at an empty doorway. Nothing there. Sam is baffled. Had to be his imagination. Had to be. After a few seconds he shakes his head dismissively and continues working. Gerty is cutting Sam's hair. Sam sitting back in a chair, barber shop style, while the robot snip-snip-snips away with a pair of scissors. Sam is gently squeezing a in his right hand. Sam, is everything okay? Everything's fine, Gerty. For a moment there is no sound but the snipping scissors, reminiscent of keys snapping on a typewriter. Then: Why do you ask? You don't seem like yourself today. Sam frowns, contemplative. For a moment we think he is going to tell Gerty about the Girl he saw earlier -- or imagined he saw. But he goes with something different. It's Tess. Has something happened? No, not exactly. Gerty stops cutting, lowers the scissors. Sam, what is it? Something doesn't feel right, that's all. beat. Sam's fingers twitching around the red stress ball, squeezing harder. Sam, it might help to talk about it. Sam decides to come clean. Tess isn't responding to things. Tess isn't responding to things? Right. What kind of things? (a beat) couple of weeks ago asked her if she wanted to go on vacation when get back, and that was thinking of either Mexico or Hawaii. Tess never said anything about it. Three messages she's sent me since...and she's never once mentioned the vacation. Im sure she can't wait, Sam. That's not the point. This is someone who lives for vacations and travelling. thought she'd jump at the chance for us to go away -- with Eve, of course -- we'd take Eve. Perhaps Tess didn't receive the message? (as if anticipating Gerty's comment) But this isn't the only time it's happened, Gerty. When asked her how her dad was doing on his new heart medicine she didn't respond to that -- asked her when Eve was going to start nursery -- nothing. Had her brother got the position at the University? Nothing. Nothing. Sam is really having a go at the stress ball now. think her brother did get the position at the University. His name is Christopher, correct? He did? Yes, seem to recall he got the position. Professor of Biochemistry, think. At Syracuse University in New York? Sam is slightly alarmed that Gerty knows this and he doesn't. How do you know that? You told me. Some time ago now. Towards the beginning of your time on Selene. When we were starting to get to know each other. (a beat) You were very happy for your brother-in-law. You danced around the Rec Room, if remember correctly. Sam looks perturbed. For a few seconds he'd eased up on the stress ball. He starts up on it again now. Gerty, have you heard anything new about anyone fixing lunar sat? No Sam. From what understand it's fairly low on the companies priority list with the Jupiter mission active. would imagine it would be very expensive to fix. pause. Sam still looks troubled. Sam, are you ok? They need to sort that out. Seriously. I've only got two weeks left. It's not fair on whoever's up here next. Gerty, you tell them to sort it out. It's not healthy. will Sam. Do you want me to finish cutting your hair later? Nah. Come on. Let's finish this. Gerty resumes cutting Sam's hair, and stops again, sensing Sam is going to say something more. The scissors freeze. I've got another one of those headaches. Can you get me something for it? Of course. Now? No not now, afterwards. The scissors start up again. Thanks, pal. Sam with a and a neatly is sitting before the Bolser Wood model of the little town. He is arched over working away with an -- -- whittling a figure out of wood. This is difficult and complicated work, and over three years Sam has become highly skilled at it. Sam can carve an actual person out of wood -- actual cheekbones, actual throats, actual hands -- it's fascinating to watch. From another room Sam hears the "ping-ping-ping" of an alarm. Flashing on the comms unit monitor: There is a small icon of a telephone. He carefully puts down the wooden figure and the exacto blade -- stands and leaves the Rec Room. Sam sits at the comms unit watching a message from his superiors, and a purposeful looking woman in charge and her earnest second. The two talk and trade off like a tag team. At times their tone can be almost bizarrely whimsical. Overmeyers and Thompson seem to have known Sam for a while, but even so, there is a practised casualness to the repartee. It's a professional friendliness on Overmeyers part, no more and for Thompson it's merely an eagerness to be involved. Delighted to hear about the latest shipment, Sam. According to Albatross 90 it should be landing off the California Coast within the next three days. Now in response to your question about the communications equipment, the news is not good. Sam, those solar storms did a lot more damage than initially thought -- Fixing the lunar sat is going to take some time. It's a significant operation. And what with the Jupiter Program hemorrhaging money -- Sam curses to himself. Lunar doesn't have the budget it once did, Sam, you know that. Even the coffee machine down in the Hub has been broken since don't know when -- We have to go to Genesis 3 just to get a decent cup of coffee, Sam. Genesis 3. That's three buildings over. We're hoping to get the live feed up and running by the Fall. The good news is you'll be home by then, Sam. You only have two weeks to go! Congrat-- Sam shuts off the message before Overmeyers can pipe out his last line. Sam sits before the dead screen -- eyes closed -- taking a succession of Sam playing Ping-Pong. He has folded up the second half of the table and is using it as a wall. The sound is rapid and rhythmic: ca-cluck ca-cluck ca-cluck. Sam taking his out on the little white ball. Sam stands before the toilet urinating. Rather ironically he is whistling I'm Walking on Sunshine -- focussed ahead at his reflection in the mirror -- angling his face, admiring his haircut, his beard. Then he looks down to flush the toilet and his abruptly It looks like someone just poured a glass of into the toilet bowl. Literally. The red urine clouding the water like a squirt of octopus ink. Yeah, Sam just pissed blood. There is a and Gerty's voice crackles from the intercom. Sam, a transmission has arrived from your wife. Sam reaches over and presses the Be right there. And he flushes the toilet. Sam sitting before the monitor. He hits the button, begins watching the message. Tess is sitting in a living room talking to Sam. Tess has a sweet voice, she sounds grounded, like she's got a head on her shoulders. Hi Sam. It's me. How are you? (a beat) got your last message, it was really great to hear your voice. know you've been really lonely up there, but in a lot of ways it's been good for you, think. hope you don't mind me saying that. I'm proud of you. (a beat) Hey, someone's got something to say. possibly a nanny or some form of hired help, swings a into Tess's arms. This is Sam and Tess's daughter. Eve, it's daddy. What did you want to say to him? Eve just stares. Tess whispers to her ("Remember what we practiced", etc.) Finally Eve attempts: Asstraut. Who's an astronaut? (encouraging) Go on! Daddy asstraut! Tess laughs. So does Sam. That's right, daddy's an astronaut. Clever girl! Eve fidgets, rubs her nose, distracted. She's shy. Uh, Cathy, could you...? The Maid steps in, hoists Eve away. Tess waits until they're out of earshot. It's her birthday next month. thought we'd get her a play house for the garden. We could even pick it out together. pause. Tess just stares into the camera. She is hundreds and thousands of miles away, but for a second it feels like she's right there in the Comms Room with Sam. It's intimate. She finally shakes her head, self-conscious, shy. God, hate these things. Sam, love you. I'm thinking of you always. can't wait to see you, sweetheart. Okay. Bye. And the message ends. smiling, on the brink of tears. The Earth at night, illuminated by a glittering spider's web of artificial lighting. From the Moon this is one of the most beautiful sights you'll ever see. Sam is in improved spirits. He pours himself a glass of juice as Gerty prepares dinner. What's on the menu tonight, Gerty? Baby back ribs with french fries and spinach. Ribs! Good choice, pal. Fine choice. It might be baby back ribs with french fries and spinach, but it's made from a packet by adding hot water. Nasty. Sam sits down with the packet. Digs in with a fork. Oh yeah! Compliments to the chef, Gerty, this is delicious! Sam eating ravenously. Sam is in the Greenhouse pruning plants with a pair of secateurs. He treads up the aisles slowly, taking time with each of the plants. plays over the sound system, Brahms, Beethoven, Bartok, one of the B's. Sam along to the music. man at peace. Sam is working on his wooden model of the town. Across the room the Ed Sullivan Show is on Ed's guest is a very young Goldie Hawn. Note: Whenever any is watched in the film, it is always a show from 1970's America. (Mash, Six Million Dollar Man, Laugh-In, etc.) No explanation is given for this. Sam is half-watching the but his focus is chiefly on the he is carving. And carving beautifully. After a few seconds he stands and snaps off the with a remote. He crosses to the kitchen section of the Rec Room to make some tea. The water has just boiled. As Sam is about to pour the boiling water, tea kettle in hand, he glances across the Rec Room and sees: The Girl. She's taken Sam's chair before the model. She is motionless, staring down at the model like she recognizes one of the little figures walking the tiny streets. Sam calmly puts the tea kettle down and begins to move towards the Girl, slowly, cautiously, like he wants to sneak up on her. Sam walks right up to the Girl and reaches out his hand... And then we to Sam standing in the kitchen. Over by the model there is no sign of the Girl. The chair is empty. She's gone. Her sitting there, Sam's walk across the room -- apparently he imagined it all. Sam looks down. The tea kettle is dangling at an angle and is onto his left hand. Simultaneously: Sam his hand Sam The tea kettle to the floor. Sam to the sink and jerks his hand under a stream of cold water. Cursing under his breath the whole time: "Shit, piss, fuck..." Sam sits in a chair as Gerty tends to his scolded left hand. It's a nasty burn. I'm going to feel that for a while, aren't Gerty? (then) Damn it. Gerty applies a translucent balm to the burn. Sam, can ask how it happened? told you, saw something on the and spilled boiling water on my hand. You saw something on the (a touch petulant) Yeah, something on the distracted me, Gerty, what's wrong with that? pause. Gerty is wrapping Sam's hand with a bandage. Sam, you said it was the that distracted you, but when came in the wasn't on. Gerty has caught him out. Sam knows it. Perhaps you were imagining things? Gerty has hit the nail on the head, in a way that makes Sam feel a little uneasy. Is there something Gerty knows that Sam doesn't? Sam asleep in bed. Sam making love to Tess. We remain very close to their bodies in bed. The background a blur. No sound. It's all flesh and white sheets. Sensual, delicate, intense. We feel almost intrusive watching. Sam wakes up and lunges across the bed to shut off his alarm clock. We notice a on the hand that he scolded. Afterwards: Sam lies back, watching the ceiling, groggy, reflective, still surfacing from his dream. And then The sound from the opening of the film, and we Sam on his morning run. Gerty is making breakfast. Sam enters, fresh from the shower. Morning, Gerty. Morning, Sam. How are you today? Fine. Fine. How's the hand? It's a little sore. Gerty pops the radio on. Just another morning on Selene. Sam sitting before The Old Man doing his daily log entry. is running on the monitor. 8:19 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 2. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 9.8 Miles... Suddenly the monitor -- a of -- and Sam himself talking on the monitor. It appears to be a previous log entry. Luke...7.3 miles...wow, better look into Luke... But bizarrely, the Sam talking on the monitor has long hair pulled back into a ponytail -- and no beard -- And then another -- another of -- and the screen turns completely single word begins to flash in the center of the screen: The word flashes three times -- before the screen returns to normal, the running again. It all happened so quickly Sam wonders if he didn't just imagine it. After an awkward pause he simply continues the original log entry. Mark, 11 miles on the button... Pulsing. Going "ping-ping-ping." Sam stands across the room with a mug of coffee, peers up at the Big Board, sees that the alarm belongs to Matthew. He crosses to the speaks into it. Gerty, looks like we've got a live one out on Matthew. wondered what was taking him so long, the old fart. I'm heading out in a few minutes, just going to finish my coffee. Okay, Sam. Sam at the wheel in his space suit, speeding towards the first of the Harvesters, known as As Sam gets closer to the Harvester, he suddenly sees something: The Girl. She is standing maybe a hundred yards away in her yellow dress, resembling a or a in the barren and colorless landscape. She appears to be staring directly at Sam's rover. His face unfolding with panic, alarm, curiosity. An intense, yearning, curiosity. He drives closer. But like in a dream, Sam can't seem to make up any distance between the Rover and the Girl. He the accelerator peddle. For a moment Sam drives right alongside the Harvester, clouds of lunar dust being kicked up, cascading against the side window. But Sam is looking away from the Harvester, focussed on the Girl. He doesn't notice Matthew (The Harvester) suddenly veer slamming into the side of the Rover and causing Sam to lose control. The steering wheel swings left and right as Sam desperately tries to the path of the vehicle, but a split second later the Rover is like a matchbox, and into the path of the Harvester -- a of -- the Rover gobbled up by the front of the Harvester, The Rover is under the Harvester's monstrous resembling a crushed beer can in a fist -- and with a the Harvester slides to a Silence. The Harvester stationary. The Rover caught beneath it. No sign of the Girl. Silence. Hold it for five seconds and then Eyelids fluttering, bright light, at first broken up, filtered, as if viewed through a Kaleidoscope. Slowly shapes and impressions begin to form and we know where we are. It's the Infirmary. and drugged-up Sam is sitting up in bed, propped with a pillow. Sam doesn't have a scratch on his face, but has clearly been through a terrifying ordeal. Gerty is bedside. Where am Sam, you're in the Infirmary. You had an accident. Sam looks bewildered -- he desperately racks his brain, trying to locate the memory. Do you remember what happened? No. (a beat) don't remember a thing. Sam just stares back at Gerty, not so much as a flicker of recognition. Do you remember me? Yes, of course remember you, Gerty. That's good. That's very good. It's nice to see you awake again. (a beat) I'd like to keep you under observation here in the Infirmary for a few days and run some tests. pause. Sam taking it all in. Eventually: How long have been out? Not long. Sam, go back to sleep. You're still very tired. We can talk later. Sam closes his eyes, sinking deeper into his pillow. Sam asleep in bed. Gerty is scanning his head with a small instrument resembling a camcorder. There are on a monitor showing blood flow, oxygen levels and glucose metabolism in the tissues of Sam's brain. one of the Harvesters, crossing the lunar landscape at Sam wakes up from an extended nap. He thrusts his fists into his eyes like a child, yawns ferociously. Gerty? No sign of the robot. Sam is feeling well enough to walk. He swings his legs out of bed, begins to plod around the room. He is tentative at first, slow, as if walking is something he is having to learn from scratch. Eventually when he is moving fluidly he goes to the door and pokes his head out into the corridor. Sam peers around. From another room he can hear the faint drone of One of these voices belongs to Gerty. The other voices are deeper, faster, human. Gerty? The voices continue. Intrigued, Sam down the corridor. As he walks up the corridor in the direction of the Comms Room. Sam is close enough now that he can actually hear the conversation. Sam arrives at the door of the Comms Room and peers in. These were extraordinary circumstances, as you know -- Gerty is installed at the Comms Unit. Thompson and Overmeyers are on the screen. The moment Gerty sees Sam he shuts off the monitor and the screen fizzes to black, Thompson and Overmeyers vanishing. Strange: Gerty appeared to have a live feed. Sam, you're out of bed. wanted to stretch my legs. (then) What was that? Not talking. No. We've been having some problems with the lunar sat and our live feed seems to be down. was recording a video message for Central updating them on your progress. (a beat) Sam, you need to stay in bed. You're not ready to walk around yet. Sam nods vaguely, turns around and heads back to the Infirmary slowly. Sam watching -- The Muppet Show, the "Pigs in Space" sketch -- and eating dinner. He's not laughing. Sam hunched over the infirmary's stainless steel wash basin giving himself a shave. He hits the razor on the side of the basin -- tap tap tap -- like a conductor with a baton. Sam is seated at a table. Frankly he looks better now than he did before the accident. Perhaps it's the rosy hue of his freshly shaven face. He certainly looks younger. man revitalized, a man mended. Gerty is giving Sam something very similar to an Test. Sam has just arranged a series of blocks into an L-shaped tower. Excellent, Sam. How much longer do have to be in here, Gerty? Sam, you suffered minor brain damage in the crash. This has resulted in memory loss and slight logic impairment. When can get back to work? Central has asked me to slow down the Harvesters to ensure you have time to recuperate and get your strength back -- (dryly, exasperated) Terrific. The good news is you can return to the sleeping quarters tomorrow. But it will still be a few more days before you can resume anything like a normal work schedule. Sam's face taught with irritation. He isn't happy. Gerty gives him the next puzzle to solve. as he takes the puzzle, the same hand he scolded in an earlier scene. The is and the appears to have completely Sam walking down the corridor in the direction of the Sleeping Quarters. He stops at a on the corridor wall, beneath it the word, He's locked inside the base. Sam pulls a face, disgruntled, continues down the corridor. Sam takes in the New York Jets poster on the wall and walks over to the bed -- studies his lucky tambourine and the glass jar of lunar rock samples -- like he's trying to reacquaint himself with his own belongings. His eyes arrive on the red stress ball. Sam scoops up the ball and it at the wall like he expects the thing to bounce back to him. The stress ball doesn't bounce back, simply hits the wall with a dull and to the desolation special. The blacker than black sky above. None of the ingredients of life. On Earth we have rainforests, and flowers, and birds. We have color. Up here we realize how lucky we are. The base is lit by large halogen comfort lights, alone in the lunar desert. This is a lunar night. Sam sitting before The Old Man doing a few innocuous tasks, collecting readouts, slurping a cup of coffee. Gerty is within ear shot. Sam sees something that pulls him to the monitor. Gerty, do you know about this? Gerty approaches. Sam taps the screen. Matthew's got no velocity read- out. He's completely still. He must have stalled. Sam gives Gerty a look. That's not good. Sam is recording a message for Central. There's no way to tell from here if a track's been thrown, or if it's just something jammed in an axle, or what... can shoot out there, check it out, get some video and maybe save you guys the expense of floating in a whole crew! know how tight money is right now.... Sam really frustrated now. He feels cooped up, stir crazy, idle. Just give me the word -- or Gerty the word, tell him to unlock the exit doors -- and I'll go out and get Matthew up and running again. (a beat) That's it. Over and out. Sam sends the message. Sam enters the Rec Room, looks around, his eyes settling on the model of the town. Sam sits down in front of the model, staring -- he picks up the he was carving earlier -- studies it carefully. Sam and Gerty are seated at the Comms Unit watching a video message from Central. Sam is holding a carved examining it as he listens to the video. The familiar faces of Overmeyers and Thompson on the screen, shoulder to shoulder, the two looking more like vultures right now than lizards. Sam, we appreciate the offer, but you concentrate on feeling better. (muttering, vexed) Oh for Christ's sake... We don't want you to take any unnecessary risks. You're too important to us. You're to stay put, understand? It's an order. It's an order, Sam. From Lunar. Stay put. We're going to send a Rescue Unit to tend to the stalled harvester and get the base back on its feet. (incensed) Why? The message ends. Sam turns to Gerty, irate, the message as good as a kick in the balls. I'm sorry Sam. Sam stares at Gerty. Sam, am under strict orders not to let you outside. Sam throws the half completed wood carving in his hand at the other end of the room, breaking it. He to his feet -- growling with frustration -- out of the room. Sam asleep in bed. Sam and Tess making love. We remain very close to their bodies in bed. The background a blur. It's the same dream we saw earlier. Something is different though. We drift past Sam and Tess, and under the sheets of the bed. Down between their entwined feet huddles a bearded, wide- eyed Sam, staring directly at us from under the sheets at the end of the bed! Sam is quietly eating breakfast, lost in thought. Gerty puttering around in the background. The radio drones away. Sam is seated at the Comms Unit watching a message from Tess. We assume this is an old message since Tess is heavily Her slender hands are spread over her prodigious belly as she beams at the camera. He's kicking...or she's kicking. I'm certain he's a boy. wish you could feel it. (a beat, shifting) think we made the right choice, Sam. really do. We need some time apart. We got stuck. That happens in marriages sometimes. It's nothing terrible. (then) Well listen, love you lots -- and we'll talk soon, okay? Bye Sam. and Tess is gone -- the monitor filled with Sam sits staring into space. Tess' message seems to have agitated him. Fuck it. He from his chair and of the Comms Room at pace. Sam strides in -- swipes a from beside the wooden model -- strides out again. Sam glances left and right -- making sure there's no sign of Gerty -- then begins to open a with the knife. Once the vent is removed he reaches deep inside and out a bundle of interwoven -- Sam bends the wires around the of the knife -- and from the cut wires. An sounds. Sam hides the knife away, shouts down the corridor: Gerty! Get over here! Quickly! Gerty comes out of the Monitoring Station and down the corridor. What happened? Don't know -- Micro meteorites, maybe? Either way there might be damage to the exterior shell. I'd better go outside and take a look. There is no damage to the exterior shell. It's not that don't believe you, Gerty, but the inner skin is springing leaks like an fire hose. Maybe you better let me take a look, just in case, huh? Sam, I'm not supposed to let you go outside. Then let's keep it between you and me then. Ok? The robot takes an inordinate amount of time to think this through. The syrupy gas distorts the light as it collects at Sam's ankles. Gerty's arms work away as they speedily repair the damage Sam has done. Finally: Okay, Sam. The "Exit Doors" turns from to For Sam this is like the of a -- he immediately takes off down the corridor -- Sam finds his space suit is gone, so grabs the spare suit and scrambles into it. Two Rovers parked side by side. One of the parking bays is Sam stands before the empty bay for a moment -- why is one of the Rovers missing? If Sam suspected something was wrong before, he is certain of it now. He climbs into one of the two remaining Rovers. Sam speeding along in the Rover. He has Matthew's coordinates plugged into his Navigation System and is following a on a small monitor. Sam heading towards the stalled Harvester. It soon becomes apparent that there is something under the front of the Harvester's second later it is apparent what that something is: inevitably, it's the Sam slows his Rover down, approaching the scene with He parks a few feet away from the wreck and opens the door of his Rover, stepping outside gingerly. is like walking on a trampoline. Sam takes long strides, bobbing over to the front of the Harvester to take a closer look, his boots leaving deep in the lunar soil. The crashed Rover is exactly as we left it after the accident, mangled, crushed, captured beneath the trundles of the Harvester. Sam peers closer and sees that there is an in a Lunar Industries space suit trapped inside. Sam can't see the man's face -- he has his back to Sam, his body sprawled across the passenger seat like he's searching for loose change on the floor of the vehicle. With great effort Sam manages to prize the Rover's door open. He reaches inside and begins to pull the man out -- Sam's sheer giving him the strength of a Sam the unconscious man away from the crashed Rover, his body leaving a big in the gray soil. Sam takes a second to catch his breath, then leans down and turns the unconscious man onto his back. He from the glass of the man's leans down even closer. Through his helmet we see a and Sam as we remember him. The Sam from the opening twenty minutes of the film. Sam's face as the the the the hit him like a wrecking ball: this man he has just pulled out of the crashed Rover is himself. Sam gathers his wits and manages to lift the unconscious Sam up over his shoulder, fireman's lift style, taking him to the parked Rover. Sam drives the Rover into the Dock, flies out and removes his space helmet, screaming: Gerty! Gerty! Help! He reaches into the Rover, lifting out the unconscious Sam. He carries him in both arms, staggering across the dock -- back arched, arms beginning to sag -- and into the corridor. Sam promptly collapses and the unconscious Sam onto the floor. Gerty! Gerty approaches, gliding along his rail. Sam is freaking out big time, exhausted, panic-stricken, bewildered. found him outside by the stalled harvester. Who is he? What the fuck is going on? pause. Gerty literally seems lost for words. (demanding an answer) Gerty! We need to get him to the Infirmary. Not until you tell me who he is! Sam, we need to get him to the Infirmary immediately. Sam the unconscious Sam up off the ground and lifts him towards the -- staggering -- stumbling -- going: Who is he! Who is he! Sounding like some deranged homeless man. Gerty gliding alongside him. Lying in the Infirmary bed, propped on a pillow, is the first Sam, the bearded Sam, who we will now refer to as He has a wicked black eye and a purple bruise on the right side of his face, looks like he was on the losing end of a brawl. He has a stuck in his arm and a tangle of attached to his bare chest. is away. Gerty hovers over him, redressing the on Sam 1's left hand, the one he scolded a while back. Sam 1's eyes pop open, he is awake, staring directly at Gerty. Hello Sam. (a beat) How are you feeling? Where am The Infirmary. You had an accident out by one of the harvesters. Do you remember? For a second this is playing out like the other Infirmary scene. case of deja-vu. Sam 1's eyes twitch as he catalogues through his memory. Yes he remembers the crash. He remembers something else, too. saw someone out there, Gerty. Who did you see, Sam? Just then Sam 1 notices the other Sam -- the more current, clean-shaven Sam -- who we will now refer to as 2. He is standing against the wall watching Sam 1. saw a girl. You saw a girl out by the harvester? How is that possible? Sam 1 continues to stare at Sam 2, hardly believing his eyes. Sam, you suffered a slight concussion in the crash and have incurred minor injuries, but all in all the prognosis is good. I'm happy to see you again. As he says this Sam 2 crosses slowly from one side of the room to the other, never taking his eyes off Sam 1. It's like Sam 2 is purposefully keeping his distance, reluctant, afraid even, to approach any closer. Meanwhile Sam 1 is beginning to look spooked. Gerty? Yes, Sam? Is there someone in the room with us? Yes. Who is he? But Sam 1 knows exactly who it is. He's seen that face every morning of his life in the bathroom mirror. Sam, get some sleep. You're very tired. Sam 2 wordlessly walks out of the room. Sam 1's eyes shift to Gerty, the spooked expression yet to leave his face. Sam 1 hobbling along, in addition to his facial injuries he injured his knee in the crash and is walking with a slight The camera behind Sam 1 as he swings along and stops at Sam 1 in the doorway, he peers in. Seated before the watching The Newlywed Game, Sam 2. He turns from the and shares a with Sam 1. Finally: Hi. Sam 2 just nods. He turns back to the Sam 1 continues on down the corridor. Gerty is studying lunar rock samples through a microscope. Sam 1 enters. Gerty, what the hell is going on? Who is that guy in the Rec Room? Where did he come from? Why does he look like me? Sam 1 is perplexed, but not freaking out, not yet anyway. Sam, you're out of bed. Yes, Gerty, I'm out of bed. Who is the guy in the rec room? Sam Bell. Sam 1 is officially now. Who the fuck is in the rec room, Gerty!? You are Sam Bell. long pause. Sam 1 at the point of tears. Sam, what is it? It might help to talk about it. don't understand what's happening, Gerty. think may be losing my mind. We could run some tests. (a beat) haven't reported anything to central, Sam. They don't know you were recovered alive from the accident. Recovered alive? What do you mean? Why haven't you reported to central? I'm here to keep you safe, Sam. want to help you. Are you hungry? Sam 1 merely nods at this, turning and plodding out of the room, seemingly in a Sam 1 comes out of the Monitoring Station, passes the Rec Room without looking in. Sam 2 has taken over the room. The same belongings, of course, but there's a different energy. For one thing it's very untidy; looks like the bedroom of an unruly teenager. Sam 1 stands in the doorway, taking it in. Wordlessly Sam 1 begins to tidy the room. He seems almost to be able to lose himself temporarily in this physical activity -- making the bed, folding clothes, etc. Sam 2 has stopped watching and is now seated at a table playing solitaire. Sam 1 appears in the doorway. Sam 2 looks up. The energy bristling with tension. You're Sam Bell. Sam 2 doesn't answer, goes back to his cards. Sam 1 enters with takes a seat across the room, purposefully keeping his distance. I'm Sam Bell, too. Yeah. Sam 1 nods. beat. This is fucked up. Completely. Sam 2 slapping down cards. Sam 1 desperately attempts to put together a coherent thought. Why... What are you? For a second we don't think Sam 2 is going to respond. Then: I'm a clone, Sam. Im a fucking clone. How long have you been here? About a week. beat. How are you getting on? (repeating the question slowly) How am getting on? (then) The company ordered Gerty to lock all the exits. haven't been able to do anything for seven days but sit on my ass. They locked all the exits? What about the harvesters? Slowed them down to half speed, apparently. And then when finally trick Gerty into letting me outside find a clone of myself in a crashed rover. How am getting on? Oh I'm loving it. I'm not a clone. Ok, Sam. You're not a clone. You're the clone. The two Sam's are inspecting plants. How long have you been here? Almost three years. Hence the Captain's beard. (with a smile) Right. didn't know it could get so thick. Does it itch? No, not really. Listen, wanted to say thank- you. If it wasn't for you I'd still be out there in the crashed rover. You saved my life. (then) Will you shake my hand? Sam 2 hesitates, eventually shakes Sam 1's hand. Meanwhile Sam 1 is staring at his clone, astonished. (self-conscious) What? You look just like me. It's incredible. Why do look like you? Why don't you look like me? We look like each other, guess. This final line intended as a kind of truce. Sam 1 and Sam 2 are folding the Ping-Pong table down so they can have a real game. The two Sams playing Ping-Pong. It's slightly competitive, but mainly they are just happy to take their minds off their situation for half an hour. Your serve. Score? Two points to eighteen. Fuck! Sam 2 slaps his paddle on his thigh, his temper creeping up on him. He catches Sam's eye. Gets a grip. Sam 1 is a better player than Sam 2. He's been up here longer. He's had more practice. After the game, the two Sams are sprawled in their seats, sweaty, flushed, energized. They sit before the model of the town. How long did it take you to do this? don't remember doing all of it. remember when did the church and the Salvation Army. And a few of the people. My mind's been acting kind of weird lately, though. It's Fairfield, right? (pointing) There's Town Hall. Uh-huh. You know Fairfield? (also pointing) That's the Baskin&Robbins.; And there's Tess and Eve. Do you know Tess? The mention of their wife has stopped the conversation in its tracks. Sam 2 immediately drops into deep melancholy. Yes. know Tess. You know about Eve, right? It is obvious from Sam 2's expression that he doesn't. We had a girl. We did? (beat) She thought she was going to have a boy. She was so sure. (then) Eve? Sam 1 nods. She's beautiful. She's really beautiful. How much did she weigh? Isn't that what you're supposed to ask, how much did she weigh? Nine pounds, eleven ounces. Sam 2 doesn't know what to do with the news: on the one hand he is jubilant, on the other he's a clone, the baby technically isn't even his. All of a sudden there is a From the Intercom speaker: Sam, a message has arrived from Central. Sam 1 and Sam 2 share a look, then together from their chairs. Sam 1 and Sam 2 seated before the Comms Unit. Sam 1 hits the "Play" button. Overmeyers and Thompson appear on the screen. Greetings, Sam! How's our Man? Feeling better? You getting lots of rest? Yeah, you resting up, Sam? You'd better be you bastard. Enjoy it while it lasts! We've got good news. The Jupiter Program had to be put on hiatus, so we've got a few free pairs of hands -- We've managed to secure you a Rescue Unit ahead of schedule. Rescue Unit Eliza. of Rescue Unit meaner group of sons-of-bitches you have never seen. These guys make the rescue team from Apocalypse Now look like The New Kids on the Block. They've been stationed on Goliath 19 for the last couple of months. Eliza's been in transit for the last day....we expect them to reach you in approximately 14 hours. Commence to jump for joy! You'll be back to work in no time. Now back on Overmeyers and Thompson. Eliza is bringing you something special, Sam. Compliments of the company. hooker! No not a hooker. What's wrong with you? It's a little something to drink, Sam, that's all, our way of patting you on the back for all that you've been through. In the meantime, keep resting up, and hang in there. Yeah you hang in there, Sam. Over and out. And the screen pops to black. pause. For a moment there is silence, neither of the Sams knowing how to react -- going by the message Thompson and Overmeyers don't know anything about there being two Sams on the base now. They're sending a Rescue Unit? Why? To fix the stalled harvester. They didn't think was up to it. Then I'm going back. Sam 2 gives Sam 1 a perplexed look. I've done my three years. That's it for me -- Sam 2 is shaking his head slowly. What? Is that what you really think? I've got a contract -- You're a fucking clone! You don't have shit! At once Sam 1 and Sam 2 to their feet -- right in each others faces, on the of I'm going home! You're not going anywhere! Sam 1 turns around, heads out of the room. Sam 2 after him, the whole time -- You've been up here too long, man! You've lost the plot! Gerty shuttles along after them. Sam 1 presses down the corridor, Sam 2 tailing right behind him. What, you think Tess is back home waiting for you? What about the original Sam? I'm the original! I'm Sam fucking Bell! Me! Me! Sam 1, stress ball pumping away in his hand, spots Gety and angrily faces him. Gerty, am a clone? Gerty doesn't know which way to look. Yes, Sam. Sam 1 ducks in the Rec Room, Sam 2 in tow. Sam 1 takes his old seat before the model. Sam 2 stands over him. What about the other clones? "Other clones?" Sam 1 just stares back. Yeah, we might not be the first two to be woken up. (indicating the model) You said that thing had already been started when you got here. Well, who started it? (then) There might be other clones up here right now. Think about it. How did get here so quickly after your crash? They didn't ship me in from Central, there wasn't time. must have come from the base. That's ridiculous. Impossible. Why would hey do that? bet there's some kind of secret room -- (laughing) Secret room? Yeah, secret room, why not? (losing his cool) You're the one who's lost the plot! I've been here for three years. know every inch of this base. know how many dust fibres are between those wall panels over there -- why would they do that?! Look. It's a company, right? They have investors, shareholders -- shit like that. What's cheaper? Spending time and money training new personnel or just have a couple of spares here to do the job. If they make it through their contract, great. If they don't, hallelujah! No contract completion fees, no retirement package. Just thaw out the spare, and keep the profits rolling in. It's the far side of the Moon, Sam! The tight fuck's haven't even fixed our communications satellite. Tess would know. Do you really think they give a shit about us? They're laughing all the way to the bank! Tess would know what's going on! She wouldn't let that happen! (exhasperated) There's some area we don't know about. I'm going to find it. Sam 1 shakes his head dismissively, picks up the wooden house, starts whittling. Meanwhile Sam 2 has left the room. Sam 2 in the Monitoring Station checking wall panels, reaching his hand inside cubbies and feeling around deep inside, Sam 2 moving along the corridor, pressing his ear against panels, tapping with his finger -- Sam 2 through the Sleeping Quarters, pushes the bed aside, lifts the mattress, goes tearing through a closet, ripping clothes from hangers, checks the back panel. Sam 2 has come full circle. He shifts the ping pong table, goes through cabinets in the kitchen, feels inside -- Sam 1 half-whittling, half-watching. told you. Shut-up! Finally Sam 2 arrives before the model. Get out of the way. Why? want to check underneath there. You're not moving the model. Get the fuck out of my way! Sam 1 stands, keeps his ground. No. Sam 1 is still holding the knife. Though he's not about to use it, both Sams are aware that it's there. Suddenly Sam 2 for the knife; an ensues -- sputtering -- the two Sams less clones right now than Sam 2 is able to loosen Sam 1's grip on the knife -- flinging the weapon across the room -- and Sam 1 up against the wall. Now Sam 2 turns to face the model. Using he lifts the model up over his and the entire thing massive There is nothing there but the bare table. Sam 1 comes up behind Sam 2 with his nose wraps both arms around Sam 2's neck. Sam 2 elbows him in the ribs -- a quick, controlled jab -- around, manages to secure Sam 1 in an arm lock. But suddenly there is no struggle coming from Sam 1: he's stopped fighting. Sam 2 removes him from the headlock -- notices his arm is with Sam 1's -- You okay? Sam 1 has remained bent over, like he's cast in stone, blood from his face and at his feet thick and fast. Sam 2 just staring, as freaked as he is baffled. hardly touched you. Now he tries to help Sam 1. Let me see. Sam 1 tears away from him. He looks up, his face a of blood -- the of his eyes unnaturally bright, shouts: Get off me! Sam 1 holds his face with his outstretched hand, as if holding it in place -- from the room -- leaking the whole way. concerned Sam 2 watches him go. Sam 1 spills in and locks the door. He turns on the faucet and cups his hand to transfer water up to his face -- this going on for a few seconds. Sam 1 stares at his reflection in the mirror, holding a of against his The blood flow has subsided Suddenly Sam 1 sees the in the mirror. It gives him a hell of a The Girl remains in the mirror looking at Sam 1. neutral expression, impassive. Sam 1 takes a deep breath, lowers the toilet paper from his nose. Who are you? No answer. (shouting) Who are you! Sam 1 swings around to confront the Girl...but she's not there, she's vanished. Her reflection has vanished from the mirror also. Sam 2 snaps on the with the remote, starts watching Laugh-In, turns, sees Sam 1 wander by in the corridor. Sam 2 considers calling out to him, opts against it, gives the his full attention. Gerty is stationed at the Old Man collecting data. Sam 1 enters. Hello Sam. Hi Gerty. Sam 1 sits. pause. Gerty turns from the monitor, faces of with an and Sam 1. Sam, is everything okay? We had a fight. Me and the other guy, the other Sam. We had a fight, Gerty. He's a maniac. You know what he did? He flipped the entire model over. Do you know how much work I've put into that thing? 938 hours. 938 hours, exactly. (then) Really? 938 hours. Approximately. (a beat) He scares me, Gerty. What is it about Sam that scares you? He flies off the handle. see it now...I see what Tess was talking about. (a beat) I've never told you this, Gerty, but she left me. Tess left me. For six months. She moved back in with her parents. know. Oh... (beat) It was the year before came in here. She gave me a second chance. promised her I'd change. You have changed, Sam. Yeah, guess have. beat. Gerty, since I've been up here I've sent Tess over a hundred video messages. Where did those messages go? Did they ever reach her? pause. Sam, can only account for what occurs on the base. What about the messages she sent to me? long pause. Finally Gerty repeats: Sam, can only account for what occurs on the base. Gerty, am really a clone? Sam, when you first arrived at Selene, there was a small crash. You woke up in the infirmary. You suffered minor brain damage and memory loss. kept you under observation and ran some tests. remember. Sam, there was no crash. You were being awakened. (a beat) It is standard procedure for all new clones to be given tests to establish mental stability and general physical health. Genetic abnormalities and minor duplication errors in the can have considerable impact-- And Tess? Eve? They are memory implants, Sam. I'm very sorry. Sam 1 nods at this. He's broken-hearted. He begins to leave. Sam, it's been several hours since your last meal. Can prepare you something? No thanks, Gerty. Sam 1 exits. Sam 1 enters the sleeping quarters -- straightens the bed and lies down. He picks up the picture of the pregnant stares at it long and hard. The is off. Sam 2 is sitting, arms folded, entrenched in Sam 1 enters and heads for the kitchen, prepares himself a snack. Sam 2 is aware that Sam 1 is there, but keeps his eyes focussed forward, as immobile as a statue. Eventually Sam 1 tentatively comes over. You okay? I'm staring into space. (points to the window) Get it? Sam 1 does get it. He smiles to be polite, sits. How's the nose? Better. beat. Listen, went haywire before. lost it. I'm sorry. It's okay. No it's not okay. fucked up Fairfield -- your model -- that's unacceptable. don't know what's wrong with me. (then) I've got a temper. need to do something about it. Yes you do. pause. I've been thinking. That Rescue Unit -- Eliza -- they'll be here in less than fourteen hours. don't know about you but I'd like to figure out where we stand before they get here. Absolutely. Ostensibly they're coming to deal with the stalled harvester. We both know that isn't true. (then) They're coming to dig your body out of that rover. They think you're in there. Right. What'll their reaction be when they find out you survived the crash? wasn't supposed to find you. Lunar instructed Gerty to lock me inside the base for Christ's sake. pause. Sam 1 thinking it over. And there's something else. Something haven't told you. (a beat) Right around the time was awakened...I walked in on Gerty talking to Central. He was having a live conversation. live conversation? Yeah. That's not possible. No no no, it is possible. It's possible because saw it, that's my point. Sam 2 feels himself losing his temper a little here. He reigns himself in. How do you know the conversation was live? It was a back and forth exchange. And saw Thompson and Overmeyers up on the monitor. was supposed to be asleep in the Infirmary. The moment walked into the comms room Gerty terminated the transmission. Now was a little drugged up, granted, but didn't imagine it. The communications equipment is damaged -- there was a solar storm -- Tabitha. Tabitha, right. Lunar made it up. Maybe. don't know. Bottom line is they don't want us to be able to contact Earth. Otherwise why would they have lied to us? pause. Sam 1 staring forward, concentrating. Sam 2 concentrating on Sam 1. How are they blocking the live feed? The base's communications equipment works fine -- Maybe they're not blocking the signal from inside the base. From where then? As if reading each others minds, the two Sams' heads turn to the window -- a slow, perfectly synchronized movement. The lunar landscape, as black and vast as ever. The view almost cruel in its emptiness. It's not giving them any answers, not yet. Sam 1 speeding along in one of the Rovers. He wears his space suit and resembles a cosmic racing driver -- shifts up a gear, the vehicle flirting with peak speed. He flies past one of the Harvesters, speaks through a microphone inside his helmet. Just passing the last of the Harvesters -- looks like John -- All of this against the of the Rover's engine. Driving away from base in a different direction, Sam 2. He also wears a space suit. He also guns the engine. He also has a microphone inside his helmet. The two clones are able to talk back and forth with no delay. How long until you're out of the base's range? We between the two Sams in their Rovers. If maintain this speed...a minute. Ninety seconds tops. You ever been this far out? No, never. Viewed from far away, the Rover's speed less impressive from a distance. As the Sams continue to drive. You see anything yet? Nothing. You? There isn't shit out here...I feel like I'm about to drive off the end of the world. (then) It would help if knew what was looking for. Through the glass of Sam 1's helmet we see his suddenly Wait a second, wait a second. Sam 1 squints and leans closer towards the windshield, like he's trying to decipher a road sign -- see something. About a hundred feet away -- appearing from thin air -- a massive metal pole stretches up into the black sky. What is it? Don't know yet. Sam 1 getting closer. Looks like some kind of antenna. Antenna? Really? (then) Hang on, looks like there's one on this side too. Sam 2 is indeed approaching something similar. Sam 1 stops his Rover about twenty feet from the Jammer. He opens the Rover's door and steps out to take a closer look. Taking in the Jammer and the adjacent Rover. Sam 1 loping towards the Jammer, seemingly in slow motion. The is --An intimidating, stark pole stabbed into the lunar landscape, like the worlds biggest caber. Next to it Sam 1 is tiny, a white dot, as insignificant as a pin prick. Sam 1 and Sam 2 We cut back and forth between the two Sams as they both investigate the separate but identical-looking Jammers. can just make out the top. Must be a hundred feet tall at least. It's huge! Whoever built these things meant business. They weren't fucking around. Their voices -- they are excited to have made this discovery -- they aren't dealing with the negatives yet. What do you think? Its not an antennae, dude. Its a jammer. (looking around) No wonder we can't get a live feed. These things must be blocking our signal. Suddenly Sam 1 doubles over. He vomits thick, viscous blood and sick into his helmet. Revolting. The noise is over the microphone. You okay? No answer from Sam 1. He backwards onto the ground. His chest like he's been punched at from the inside -- he spins over onto his front -- Sam? Sam 1 manages to climb to his feet -- heads slowly back to the Rover -- he dips in, closes the door. Sam, can you hear me? Yeah, hear you. (then) I'm going to head back to base. I'm not feeling too good. I'll stay out here a little longer. want to see if there are any more of these things. Sam 1 pulls a U-turn and begins his journey back to base. Sam 2 remains out by his Jammer, investigating further. Sam 1 at the wheel. He has pulled his helmet off within the safe pocket of the rovers cabin. He's a grizzly mess of splashed sick and blood all over his face and chest. Sam 1 screams out with confusion, frustration, terror. Fuck! He seizes the steering wheel, shakes it -- beginning to really -- Sam 1 drives his Rover into the Dock -- not with his customary precision -- parks at an angle, grazes the wall. The Rover's door opens and Sam 1 steps out unsteadily, his face visibly through the glass of his helmet. He across the dock -- doesn't even close the Rover's door behind him -- heads into the corridor. Sam 1 goes swerving up the corridor like a drunkard -- into walls -- he finally reaches the bathroom and ducks in -- Sam 1 sinks to his knees before the toilet bowl. With great effort he is able to remove his helmet, placing it on the floor next to him. He stares into the toilet. For a moment all is calm. The gentle "ping-ping-ping" of a computer somewhere inside the base. Sam breathing steadily. Spots of sweat on his upper lip. And then he He vomits he vomits His whole body forward in the process, taught, tense, like a dog being on a Sam 1 vomits again. And again. And again. And stops. Sam 1's vomit is -- he's thrown up -- but that's not all -- we can clearly see two or three floating in the vomit -- Sam 1 stands, moves to the mirror, opening his mouth wide to look for the missing teeth -- he uses his thumbs, shows his gums -- revealing: yes, he's lost at least a couple of teeth. He flushes the toilet. Sam 2 driving along in his Rover. He comes across another one of these He drives right up, ducks down, peering up through the windshield -- this new Jammer is as tall as the others, in fact, it is identical in every way. How many of these things are there? Sam 2 circles the Jammer in the Rover, drives on. Sam 1 enters and sits down at The Old Man. Frantically he starts typing in numbers. An array of Log Entries appear Sam watches one of them. (on screen) January 12th, Lunar hour 8:32. All Harvesters running smoothly today. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 12.7 miles; Mark 11.9 miles... These are just his log entries. What's he looking for? Sam 1 starts scrolling through the log entries, like he's chapters on a showing himself at various stages of his time on Selene -- his beard essentially growing in as the messages stretch further back -- eventually Sam 1 is clean shaven -- (on the screen) Luke, 12.9 miles; John, 11.1 miles... Sam 1 keeps typing in numbers. No go. He tries to hack his way in, but is having no luck. One of Gerty's long spindly slides into the room. Sam backs away from the intimidating piece of machinery, but it stops within reach of the computer. Sam 1 watches as the arm reaches forward and taps the password in for him. It leaves the room the way it came in. Sam 1 continues to go further and further back -- and suddenly he up on the screen again -- or is it him? -- this Sam up on the screen has stubble -- no beard -- and looks seriously -- He is barely able to talk -- in fact he's -- (on screen) ...John, 15.1 miles...sorry, I'm not feeling too hot today -- I'm going to have to continue this later -- The becomes a and -- continuing to through the log entries -- showing yet more -- one has a -- one has a -- one has grown out his hair and has a we've seen this particular Sam before in an earlier scene. But all the Sams have one thing in common: towards the latter end of their log entries they all appear to be in very bad physical shape -- ...I've got blood coming out of my nose... don't feel too well, Old Man. My hair's falling out...look it. Sam 1 searches even into the and uncovers yet more footage. We see the others Sams returning to Earth -- yet they don't seem to go anywhere -- when they blast off the remains in its bay -- Sam 1 views different Sams blasting back to earth in the return vehicle -- always with the same result -- the return vehicle remaining in its bay, the Sams seemingly In one particularly Sam 1 views Gerty opening the lid to the cryo pod in the return vehicle and beginning to what appears to be or -- Sam 1 understands now that the Return Vehicle is not a spacecraft, but some kind of Sam 1 heads into the Return Vehicle. Its dominated by the cryo pod, used to hold astronauts in a state of cryogenic sleep on their way back to Earth. Sam 1 pops open the lid and starts frantically searching the chamber for of the previous Sams, eventually finding particles of in the cracks -- He closes the lid. video showing a in a white lab coat begins to play on a screen aimed at the glass lid of the pod. It's mute, but we can hear a tinny version of the audio coming from the cryo pod. Sam 1 pushes a button on the monitor and we hear the audio properly. ...relax and breathe deeply. The cryo pod is designed to put you into a deep sleep for the duration of your three day return journey back to Earth. As you begin to get sleepy, think about the magnificent job you've done, and how proud your family are of what you've accomplished. Relaxing music begins to play. After a moment the music stops. There is a pause. Then an almighty pulse of light from the cryo pod. This is how Sams past have met their end. Nuked to ash like microwave meals in the cryo pod. Sam 1 inspects the controls of the spacecraft to see if it really is a vehicle -- in the process of his search he finds himself down on his knees checking out the wiring. Suddenly Sam 1's attention is on the floor He appears to be kneeling on some kind of -- like a tablet in the return vehicle's floor -- he presses his ear against the panel -- -- The panel sounds Sam 1 opens a cubby, swipes something similar to a heads out of the frame -- Back in the Return Vehicle, Sam 1 stands over the panel in the floor. He uses the to prize the panel open -- this takes an extraordinary effort -- the panel eventually like a manhole cover. Sam 1 can't believe his eyes. At the top of the leading down into darkness...there's Sam 2 returns from his tour of the perimeter of the base; pulls up alongside Sam 1's Rover, having to compensate for his clone's poor parking job. Sam 2 exits the Parking Bay and removes his helmet. Down the corridor he sees Sam 1 standing outside the Return Vehicle: facing him, waiting. saw three more of those jammers. The base is surrounded. printed out their coordinates -- Sam 2 begins to remove a piece of paper from his pocket, but suddenly stops. He can tell by Sam 1's expression that something has happened. What? What is it? found your secret room. Standing over the Open Panel, an anxious Sam 1 and Sam 2 stare down. Who goes first? Sam 1 wordlessly takes the lead, crouching slightly to seize the ladder and twist his body down into the hole. He begins to When he is roughly half way down Sam 2 follows. Sam 1 reaches the bottom of the ladder. He's in a dark room, a kind of -- if did crypts, it would look like this. The only light source right now is the coming from the Return Vehicle up above. Sam 2 hops down beside Sam 1, squints into the darkness. Is there a light? Both Sams along opposing walls -- Sam 1 eventually finding a snaps it on. An array of overhead fluorescent bulbs begin to and before the chamber completely -- The two Sams can hardly believe their eyes: stretching back maybe fifty feet are rows and rows of -- like upright glass coffins -- and standing inside each pod, an as-of-yet It's like an of Sam Bells... Spooky as hell. For a few moments Sam 1 and 2 are too stunned to speak. They walk to the end of the chamber and back again, looking at each clone one at a time -- all the clones are bare chested and wear some kind of white cloth to cover their genitals, like a diaper. Of course they all look the same, that's why they're clones, but this piece of scientific wizardry is mind- boggling to Sam 1 and 2 -- they at how each of the clones is identical in every way, and down to the minutest of details -- same length of hair, same skin tone, same fingernails -- Why are there so many of them? The cryo pod in the Return Vehicle is an incinerator. Sam 2 reacts with appropriate shock. What? We don't go home. We're burned to death up there. Then the company wakes up a new one. Every three years. Like clock work. Sam 2 absorbing this. Then: How do you know all this? (beat) hacked into the Old Man. Actually, Gerty did. saw footage. You're right, there have been other clones before us. How many? Enough. pause. If that Rescue Unit finds the two of us awake at the same time, they'll kill us both for sure. Sam 1 doesn't respond, he's in his own world. What are we going to do? All of a sudden Sam 1 makes a beeline for the ladder, starts heading back up. Where are you going? Sam 1 is digging in drawers, removes some equipment, some wires; a radio, a small machine called a referred to as a He is watched by Gerty. Sam, can help you with something? Not now, Gerty, okay? Gerty begins to slide out of the room. Sam calls after him. Gerty? Why did you help me? With the password? Doesn't that go against your programming or something? Helping you is what do. Gerty leaves. Sam 1 goes on picking up equipment, shoves it all into a backpack he swiped from a peg. Now Sam 2 appears in the doorway. What's going on? There's something I've got to do. Sam 1 brushes by Sam 2 on his way out. Sam 1 marches up to his Rover, tosses in the backpack and dips inside without his helmet, closes the door and backs out into the black day. Sam 1 at the wheel, flooring the Rover -- he looks possessed, determined -- a man on a mission -- Sam's Rover approaches one of the many Jammers that we now know circle the perimeter of the base. Sam 1 stops the Rover on the other side of the Jammer. Here, outside the range of the Jammers, he figures he might be able to get a signal through to Earth. as he removes his equipment from the backpack and starts to uncoil wires -- inserts a small onto the back of the sits the on his lap. The resembles a Play Station Portable with its small but nonetheless high-quality screen. Sam isn't sure who to contact at first...finally he enters some numbers from memory. The shaking in his hands. He is nervous, scared. He disables the video mode on his end, so he is only sending audio. moment of silence. The seems dead. Come on...come on... Then the -- the monitor -- the message seems to have gone through. And suddenly a appears on the screen. Sam 1 can't believe it. It's the same Girl from his hallucinations. Same wheat-colored hair. Same freckles dotting her cheek bones. Same yellow dress. The moment Sam 1 sees the Girl he thinks -- naturally -- that he's imagining things again. But then she speaks: Hello? That's never happened before. Sam 1 finally manages to respond: Uh, Bell residence? The conversation has a very slight delay, maybe a second or two, and the Girl isn't completely clear on the monitor. We assume that these minor technical glitches are the same on the Girl's end. The Girl is sweet, chirpy -- nothing like the haunting, ghost-like figure from Sam 1's hallucinations. This is the Bell Residence. I'm trying to reach Tess Bell. The girl's expression shifts -- now somewhere between melancholy and curiosity -- I'm sorry, she passed away some years ago. Sam 1 He literally gasps. Like someone just plunged a paring knife into his belly. No...no way. The girl just stares. Tess Bell? Are you sure? Uh, yeah, think so. I'm her daughter. (then) Can help you? And astonishingly, the news of Tess's death actually takes a back seat as Sam 1 is forced to confront this new revelation. The girl is Sam 1 is talking to his Sam 1 tilts his head, a smile twitches on his face. Eve? Sam 1 can't believe it. She's beautiful. She's beautiful. Yes? moment. Eve looking more closely, trying to decipher Sam 1's face. Tears glistening in his eyes. (overwhelmed) Hi... Hi. Eve. How old are you now? For a second Eve is embarrassed -- she blushes slightly -- but is still pulled in, intrigued. I'm fifteen. (then) Do know you? How did mom die, sweetheart? Uh... Now Eve is beginning to look spooked. She turns away from the screen and calls to someone in another room: Dad! And then we hear a voice. Sam's voice. What! Dad, there's someone asking about mom... Sam's voice sounds more as he comes into the room -- but we don't see him yet -- he sounds, Who's asking about mom? Sam 1 hurriedly shuts off the He sits there in the Rover, on the Moon, the middle of nowhere -- hundreds and thousands of miles from Earth -- Sam 1 has never felt more alone than he does right now. The Rover viewed from outside. We can't hear a thing. Just the endless and unrelenting Inside the Rover we are able to make out Sam 1, quivering at the wheel as he sobs. The "ping-ping-ping" of an alarm. Appearing on The Old Man's monitor: 12 and 22 Sam 2 is sitting before the model. He's flipped it back over and returned it to the table top. Now he is attempting to fix some of the demolished pieces. At this moment he's gluing the spire back on the church. Sam 2 hears a sound from the corridor. Moments later Sam 1 appears in the doorway wearing the backpack. Sam 1 is beginning to look alarmingly His depleting health has been evident throughout the film, but now it seems to have jumped to a new level. He watches Sam 2 for a little while. Want me to help? Sam 2 shifts over to give Sam 1 the adjacent chair. Sam 1 walks over, sits down. Together they work on gluing the church back together. Remember that crazy drunk guy who used to hang out by the church? Barbara Streisand? (with a smile) He looked like Barbara Streisand. We used to hide his Bible when he passed out. Drove the guy nuts. Sam 2 nods, remembering. pause. How do you carve these things? Want me to show you? Sam 2 nods. Sam 1 picks up a block of wood, grabs an exacto blade. Demonstrates. You need to hold the wood away from you. Like this. You're shaking. Sam 2 isn't kidding. Though he is carving the block of wood, Sam 1 can't keep it steady. Why are you shaking? Watch what I'm doing. (then) You watching? Yeah. Now you try. Sam 1 hands the wood and exacto blade to Sam 2. Sam 2 attempts to whittle. He smiles, a little embarrassed. suck. You'll get the hang of it. (a beat) You see, that's a little better already. Suddenly Sam 1 turns around and has a vicious coughing fit. It actually seems to propel Sam 1 out of his chair and up onto his feet. Sam 2 watches with concern. Eventually the coughing subsides. What's happening to you? Sam 1 averts his gaze. Listen, realize I've been less than cooperative. But want to change that. You and me, we need to work together. And that starts with not keeping secrets from each other. (a beat) Now what's going on? Sam 1 tells the truth. think I'm dying. Sam 2 stares back at him. There's blood in everything. My urine. My vomit. I've got a constant headache. Dizzy spells. (a beat) The same thing happened to the other clones. saw it when hacked into the Old Man. After three years they all started to get sick. Now it's happening to me. Well, it's been happening for a while now. couple of weeks. What do you think it is? Maybe we don't live that long. Maybe we start to decompose or something. Jesus. Suddenly Sam 1 closes his eyes -- -- looks like he's going to pass out. Hey hey hey, you okay? Sam 2 stands and moves to Sam 1. Holds him up, checks his temperature. Why don't you lie down for a while? Take some tranqs. Get some sleep. (grim smile) No tranqs. don't think would ever wake up again. Sam 1 manages a nod. Sam 2 hooks his arm around Sam 1's shoulder, helps him from the room. Sam 2 deposits Sam 1 onto the bed. He removes Sam 1's backpack, eases a pillow under his head. Sam 1 is instantly asleep. Sam 2 pulls the comforter over him. Sam 2 begins to leave the room, sees Sam 1's backpack on the floor, the sticking out of it. Curious, Sam 2 grabs the on the VP's "Last Transmission: 15:14pm." Sam 2 enters the Rec Room and shuts the door. He moves to one of the tables and sits down, on the we begin to re-watch the conversation between Eve Bell and Sam 1. Obviously we are only seeing Eve's face on the screen, but Sam 1's voice in the background. Uh, Bell Residence? This is the Bell residence. (commenting as he watches) No you didn't... I'm trying to reach Tess Bell. I'm sorry, she passed away some years ago. Sam 2 and Sam 1 have exactly the same reaction at the same time. No...no way. No...no way. Tess Bell? Are you sure? Uh, yeah, think so, I'm her daughter. (then) Can help you? I'm her daughter. couple of days ago Sam 2 didn't know he had a daughter, and now he's seeing her as a teenager, a young woman. He is stunned. Sam 2 continues to watch the message but we Sam 1 fast asleep. Sam 2 watches him from the doorway. Gerty is just continuing with his tasks like nothing is happening. Right now he's ready-meals and miscellaneous lunar snacks into neat columns. Sam 2 walks up. Gerty, need to talk to you. Of course, Sam, how can help? We found the hidden room. We know about the other clones. long pause. Then: don't know of a hidden room. The hidden room under the Return Vehicle, Gerty. You know what I'm talking about. We found it on our own. Lunar doesn't know anything about it. beat. The lower deck is out of bounds to awakened clones -- Ordinarily, Gerty, but what with there being two of us awake at the same time, and what with the situation being unprecedented, the rules have had to change. Do you understand? understand the situation is unprecedented. Good. (a beat) Gerty, how long does it take for a clone to wake up? clone is awake the moment his pod is opened. But he is not fully conscious for several hours. beat. Gerty, we need to wake up a new clone. am not permitted to do that, Sam. If we don't wake up another clone me and the other Sam will die. We'll die, Gerty. Do you understand? Yes. Do you want me and the other Sam to die? That is the last thing want. Then you have to wake up a new clone. Okay, pal? Sam 2 waits for a response. And waits. The "ping-ping-ping" of an alarm. Appearing on The Old Man's monitor: 6 and 19 Sam 1 fast asleep in bed. stretch of green grass dissected by a dirt path. light breeze. Endless blue sky above. No clouds. No visible sun. Back on the sleeping Sam 1. Deep breaths. Eyelids twitching slightly. In the distance, sitting beneath a tree on a blanket, we see She is removing items from a picnic basket. Sam enters the frame, his back to the camera. He watches his wife for a few moments, maintaining his distance. Tess looks up and sees Sam. She lifts her hand, waves. Sam's expression is blank at first, but then he smiles at Tess, waves back. Sam 1's eyes open slowly. He's awake. Was his dream a memory? premonition? Or was it simply made up? Sam 1 yawns and stretches his arms over his head. He reaches across the bed and rips a couple of tissues from a box of Kleenex, blows his nose. Afterwards he checks the tissues: a thick came out of his nose, the color and consistency of tomato pure. Yeah, gross. Sam 1 rolls out of bed, plants his feet on the ground. The base seems eerily quiet. Too quiet. Sam 1 stands and crosses to the door. Sam 1 begins to walk left, down towards the Rec Room and the Monitoring Station, but hesitates -- he turns the other way, towards the Infirmary, heads that way instead. Lying in one of the Infirmary beds, eyes closed, a of attached to his chest...Sam. We don't know which Sam it is yet. He is clean shaven. He looks like any one of the clones down in the secret chamber; then again he could just as easily be Sam 2. And that's what Sam 1 naturally assumes as he enters the Infirmary and sees him lying there. Sam 1 moves closer, curious, until he is standing right at the edge of the bed. Sam 1 reaches out his hand to wake him up when there is a voice from the doorway behind: Don't touch him. Our suspicions are now confirmed. The Sam in the Infirmary bed is a new clone. We will call him 3. He's not conscious yet. Gerty and only woke him up a few hours ago. Sam 1 is not even remotely on the same page. Why? Sam 2 puts his finger to his lips. Then: Come to the Rec Room. Sam 2 turns and leaves. Sam 1 follows slowly, one or two glances at the sleeping clone along the way. We cut straight to the Rec Room and the conversation between Sam 1 and Sam 2. When the Rescue Unit arrives they'll expect to find a body in the crashed Rover, right? (a beat) We've got our body. (points towards the Infirmary) That guy? Sam 2 nods. They'll expect to find a dead body in the crashed Rover. know. (stunned) You're going to kill him? Someone's got to pull the short straw here, better someone who's unconscious than you or me. Sam 1 simply digesting the gravity of Sam 2's plan. If we go through with this, I'm going to need your help hauling him out to the crash site. What about us? Eliza arrives, finds you and me as the welcome party -- They're not going to find you and me as the welcome party, they're going to find me. You're going to blast back to Earth before they get here in one of the Helium 3 containers. (a beat) You're going home. Sam 1 wasn't expecting that. You've done your three years. can't expect you to stick around. Maybe you can meet Eve in person. beat. saw the message on the Eve is beautiful. She looks like her mom. Sam 1 realizes that Sam 2 knows everything. There are no secrets between them now. They both absorb the impact of knowing Tess is dead. Finally: How do you think she died? don't know. (then) Jane died of cancer. mean, it was in the family. Who knows? Or maybe it was an accident? Could have been a million things. wish I'd been there. Yeah. Me too. The two Sams sitting together, by their grief. Shot of Selene from across the lunar plane. The base looks almost peaceful. No evidence of the going on inside. The two Sams are testing out the to see if their plan is going to work and Sam 1 can actually fit inside. These containers were designed to carry cannisters of Helium 3, not to accommodate human beings. Sam 1 looks in increasingly bad shape. Blanket draped around his shoulders -- gaunt, bobbing, shivering. Go for it. Sam 1 hunches and slowly insinuates himself into the container -- yes, he fits, but it's tight, like really tight -- Sam 1 can anticipate one hell of a stiff neck by the time he steps out onto terra firma. Comfy? No. Sam 2 chuckles. But you fit. That's good. You fit. With a Sam 2 Sam 1 from the container. Gerty is running tests on the unconscious Sam 3. Sam 1 and Sam 2 stand on opposite sides of the room. Both clones seem uneasy. They can't look at each other. They can't look at Sam 3. Their eyes roam every inch of the room just about before finally settling on Gerty. Regardless of Sam 3 being unconscious, are they really going to kill him? Sam 2 sits at the comms unit recording the message, a smile plastered on his face, as as it is Sam Bell reporting to Central. 19:14 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 14. (a beat) Evening Overmeyers, evening Thompson! According to the Old Man Rescue Unit Eliza will be here in just over three hours. Not a moment too soon! never thought I'd say this, but want to get out there, want to work. feel like a kid who's been grounded. Looking forward to Eliza straightening everything out and things getting back to normal around here. Well...that's it. I'll let you know how it goes. Over and out, gentlemen. Sam 2 sends the message, his instantly He mutters under his breath: Bastards. Sam 1 is sitting on the edge of his bed holding the photograph of the pregnant Tess -- staring with great concentration -- almost penetrative -- like he's trying to will himself into the photograph. We find out what's running through his head, cutting to: Sam 1 has gone back to his dream -- or his vision -- of Tess sitting on the picnic blanket beneath the tree. Sam and Tess continue to wave to one another. Sam hasn't moved. Tess calls out: Come on! Suddenly we hear a voice. Sam? Sam 2 is standing at the door. Sam 1 looks up at him. We need to do it. We need to do it now. He'll be conscious any minute. (a beat) We've been putting it off for long enough. Sam 1 stares back at Sam 2 with defiance. We don't have to do anything. changed my mind. Sam 2 isn't following. I'm not going back. (a beat) I'm coughing up blood, I'm as white as a ghost. look like belong in a graveyard. meet Eve now, I'll scare the shit out of her more than anything else. D'you think she'll even come within ten feet of me, the way look? What are you talking about? She's your daughter, man! She's not going to care what you... (angry) She's not! She's not... my daughter. At least, I'm not her father. Not to her. Sam 2 keeps quiet. I'll put myself in the Rover, I'll be the body -- it was me to begin with anyway, right? You go back to Earth. You go back. You're healthy. You've got three years ahead of you. You stand a much better chance than do. The other guy....Gerty can get him up to speed...he can be here to meet Eliza when they arrive. Sam 1 seems to have it all figured out. Although Sam 2 should in some ways be relieved by Sam 1's decision, he looks closer to distraught. This is wrong. What are we supposed to do? Sit around here and wait to die? Fuck that! don't know. (beat) It's what we were designed to do. Both Sams struggle to hold in their emotions; Sam 1 morose, Sam 2 angry. Screw that! I'll go! ...And I'm going to find this asshole, Sam Bell, and ask him why the hell he put us through this shit! Sam 1 looks concerned. Sam 2 reads his mind. I'll be careful. I'll keep Eve out of it. She wont even know exist. Sam 1 smiles wearily, watching his old self. You're a good guy, Sam. might stop shaving; It suits us. (beat) If all our memories are implants, no disrespect, but think its about time got some of my own, as well. Yeah. You should travel. I've always wanted to do that. I'd like that. Driving to the crash site. Sam 2 at the wheel, Sam 1 riding shotgun. Both men staring ahead in silence. Where all the trouble really started. Matthew, the stalled Harvester, with the crashed Rover still trapped beneath it. The crash site is beginning to resemble some old underwater shipwreck. The Rover enters the frame, beginning to slow down as it approaches the crash site. Sam 2 rolls the Rover to a standstill about ten feet from the front of the Harvester. Sam 2 keeps the engine running as Sam 1 takes a handful of one by one, washing down each pill with a swig from a bottle of water. Afterwards: a long pause. The two Sams sitting side by side, staring across the bleak landscape. Neither of them wants to say good-bye particularly. Tess came in for the interview, remember? Sam 2 is nodding away. Of course he remembers. She was so beautiful. Even if she wasn't the best candidate, just knew had to give her the job. thought she was so sweet. (a beat) And then it was the end of the summer. She was going back to San Francisco. You knew you had to take a chance. So you called her. You were terrified and wrote that whole speech for her answer machine -- (a beat) But didn't need it because Tess answered the phone. And could tell in her voice as we talked, she was thinking... "Why has Sam called me?" "The internship's over, why's he called me at home?" And then asked her if she was going to Adrian Fiddle's barbecue and... Sam 1 has dropped off to sleep. The back and forth exchange is now essentially Sam 2's monologue. That's when knew she liked me. Because she didn't want to talk to anyone else! She'd get up, get some potato salad, go to the bathroom, but she'd always come back. And then we kissed. On the steps in front of her apartment building. Sam 2 finally turns and looks at Sam 1. Sam 1's head cocked to one side, eyes closed. Sam 2 lifts the helmet off Sam 1's lap -- carefully lowers the helmet onto Sam 1's head. Sam 2 towards the crashed rover holding Sam 1 in both arms like a bride. He places Sam 1 on the ground and open the rover door -- he slowly slides Sam 1 inside. Inside the Rover Sam 1 lies with his head jammed awkwardly against the passenger side door. At once he looks peaceful and wretchedly uncomfortable. Sam 2 can barely bring himself to look at Sam 1. With both hands he the door pivots around and slowly back to his rover. Sam 2 driving back to base. He has removed his helmet and is brushing tears from his eyes with his glove. The "ping-ping-ping" of an alarm. Appearing on The Old Man's monitor: 1 and 40 Gerty is continuing to run tests on Sam 3. Sam 2 enters. He carries the freighted exhaustion of a man who has just completed a long and difficult journey. How long before he's conscious, Gerty? The new clone will be conscious within one hour. That's good. That's very good. Sam? Where is Sam? He's gone home, Gerty. Sam 2 leaves. Sam 2 is loading into the in preparation for his trip back to Earth. Sam 2 working a sense of Eliza will be there in a mere 90 minutes! It's coming down to the wire. Gerty glides in as he works. Sam, this is not going to work. What? Why not? Now Sam 2 loads food into the cargo container -- moon snacks, rations, etc. -- and bottles of water. His final addition is a 5 kilo load of precious Helium3; good 15 million dollars worth! If the Rescue Unit examine my memory banks they will discover what has taken place over the last week. As you know record everything. If they are suspicious, the first thing they will do is search my memory banks, and this would put you in considerable danger. Sam 2 straightens up, giving Gerty his full attention now. This is serious. It could ruin everything. The fact that Gerty has brought it up indicates that the robot's loyalties lie ultimately with Sam. recommend erasing my memory banks. can reboot myself once you have departed. So that's what we're going to have to do. (beat) Are you ok with that? I'll require your assistance, Sam. Sure, just let me finish this. Sam 2 continues his work. Sam 3 asleep in bed, very close to consciousness. Sam 1 inside the crashed rover, resembling a wild animal pinned in a trap. He's still breathing. Once again we see Tess beneath the tree sitting on the blanket. She looks over at Sam, continuing to wave. Come on, Sam! Sam Bell! Come on! Sam begins to walk towards Tess. Back on Sam 1. The glass of his helmet is beginning to with blood. Sam sees a sliver of the sun as he dawns on his side of the moon. He closes his eyes for the last time. Sam 2 stands before Gerty. I've set your computer to reboot the second I've blasted off. Okay, Sam. Thanks for all your help, Gerty. wish could say was going to miss you, buddy, but to be honest, can't wait to get away from here. understand, Sam. hope life is everything you remember it to be. Thanks. Are you sure you're going to be ok? Of course. The new Sam and will be back to our programming as soon as have finished rebooting. Gerty, I'm not programmed. Gerty doesn't respond. Sam 2 seems troubled. Sam 2 leans forward and activates the Memory Erase button. Gerty's begins to and with -- then slowly The Robot has been officially Gerty just stands there. Completely still. As lifeless as a toy. Sam 2 heads out of the room at top speed. Shot of the third of the Harvesters, heading across the lunar plane. Sam 2 pauses at the window...looking for Eliza. The Rescue Unit is so close Sam 2 might actually be able to pick out their spacecraft. And he can! It's tiny, but nevertheless it's there -- a metallic spacecraft, glinting like a jewel -- and heading steadily towards the Moon. There isn't a moment to lose. Sam 2 swings around, heads for the We remain inside the Monitoring Station as Sam 2 climbs inside the Cargo Container He readies himself. Says a little prayer and... he cant do it! Cursing at himself and glancing at the time ticking away before Eliza lands, he jumps back out of the and runs back into the base. Sam 2 sits down before the Old Man. Eliza's imminent arrival causing increased and Sam 2 takes out the piece of paper on which the of the Jammers are printed out. He starts to frantically type, altering the of the Mark trundling along at half-speed. The Harvester suddenly changes direction -- veering sharply to the left and heading up over a steep slope. Back on Sam 2 as he types, makes an error, screams: Fuck! Pounds the delete button, continuing to type coordinates into the Old Man -- He's done! He leaps out of his chair and tears off through the base towards the cargo container. As Eliza's spacecraft sets its sights on Selene, we see the Cargo Container through the sky in the opposite direction. For a few moments all is quiet inside the base. The of the Old Man. The grinding of a computer readout. This sequence echoes the tour at the very start of the film, but the base has a decidedly different feel to it now. It's like an abandoned house. On the monitor: box shaped spacecraft, all menace and angles, slowly towards the lunar surface. Gerty sits lifeless. We hear the sounds of pressure doors opening. Unrecognized voices as the landing crew enters the base, calling for Sam. Gerty comes to life. His principal monitor and his pincer-like begin to His streams with Gerty's head begins to swivel left and right -- as if he's awoken with a stiff neck -- eventually he Sam 3, crosses to him. Just like that, Gerty continues his routine checks of Sam 3 -- studying Sam 3's heartbeat, his brain activity -- the robot literally picking up where he left off. And then Sam 3's eyes open. He is awake. He blinks at Gerty, cloudy, groggy. Where am Sam, you're in the Infirmary. You had an accident. Sam 3 staring ahead, trying to dig up the memory. Do you remember what happened? No, Gerty. (a beat) don't remember a thing. We hear heavy footsteps and voices closer now, just outside the infirmary. of as the Harvester churns along and into an with full force. The Jammer wobbles unsteadily from the before finally over, the air with lunar dust. The Cargo Container through space, fire blasting from its jets like the petals of an exotic flower. Sam 2 is seriously cramped inside one of the Helium 3 containers, about as comfortable as a pony in a dog kennel, but nonetheless at the sheer velocity of the container -- as well as, and perhaps even more so, the fact that he has successfully escaped the base. He's going home. Sam 1 has stopped breathing. The sun shines on his face. Sam walks towards Tess. He sits down in front of her on the blanket. beautiful picnic is spread out before them. Tess has never looked so radiant, so beautiful. Light from the sky pours into her upturned face. What took you so long? Sam just smiles back at her. She hands him a bottle of wine and a corkscrew. -- not a cloud in sight -- but we are just able to pick out the chalky outline of the resembling a white thumb print in the blue sky. shot of the Moon for a few seconds before we On the Comms Unit monitor there is a of followed by a Moon : Duncan Jones Nathan Parker : Drama Myster