Written by Peter Morgan Based on the novel by Philippa Gregory We're moving through a cornfield. At speed. The sound of children's laughter. Excited shrieking. beautiful young girl, 8), our heroine, runs through the fields, being chased by her younger brother, and sister, (10). Touchingly, is barely taller than the corn, her head skimming along the sheaves. the children are being watched by their parents, and received a formal request for marriage today for Anne. (a beat) From the Carey family. indicates to the eldest. Dark-haired. Intelligent. The obvious leader among the children. But that's wonderful. turned it down. turns...`What?' And offered them Mary instead. indicates the middle child. Fair-haired. Pretty. Sweet-natured. Fnne's too good for William Carey. She can do (better than a merchant's son. You underestimate Mary. Not true. think she's..the kinder of the two. Quite possibly the fairer. The meanwhile, have started a race.. But to get ahead in this world, you need more than fair looks and a kind heart. On the field, wins. She jumps up and down, holding her arms aloft, as flops to the floor. Vanquished. smiles, `See?' He walks towards (applauding his favourite) Bravo! Anne! Bells ring high up in the bell-tower of a country church. ten years older, and grown into a heavenly bride is in her room, surrounded by and making final adjustments to her dress. knock at the door. May we come in..? and enter. lets out a low whistle.. Look at you..! Younger than me. More beautiful than me. Married before me. (a beat) am eclipsed. am just the `Other Boleyn Girl.' Hardly. No, is this it? This is the end of the unholy trinity? extends her arms, wraps them around his two sister. An intimate moment. No, George. Never. I'll be married, that's all.. (a beat) Apart from that - it won't change a thing. The three of them hug together, tightly.. packed country church. The officiates in Latin. The air is thick with incense. And winter cold.. The entire is assembled on one side. the and of brother and finally Confirma hoc, Deus, quod operatus es in nobis.. The sprinkles the ring with holy water. (35), puts it on MARY's finger. few rows back, a young stares at Looks at her across the church. Obviously attracted. notices. The party afterwards. play. The bride and groom, and are dancing, surrounded by and other Are you happy? Very. You don't secretly wish you'd married someone grander? With a title? No. want a husband who loves me. And who thinks it first thing every morning. And last thing at night. Then you've found the right man. is dancing with her brother She looks up to see the who was staring at her across the church.. Who is that? He was staring at me in church? That's Henry Percy. Heir to the Duke of Northumberland. Richest landowner in England. ANNE's eyes widen in interest, "Really?" But don't get your hopes up. He is already betrothed. indicates a tall, haughty-looking beside Betrothed is not married, brother George. lot can happen before you reach the altar. stares over at Who stares back. he the most powerful nobleman in the room, and close personal friend of the KING's walks with his growling to where and are sitting. gets to his feet.. Thomas.. he ignores and goes instead to his sister, and kisses her.. think have managed to persuade the King to come and stay with you on progress. week-end's hunting in late summer. But that's wonderful! Thank you, thank you so much.. (he turns to Did you hear that, Elizabeth? (hates the idea) Yes. Finally we can present George, and with luck, get him a position at court. excuses herself, and leaves.. These are difficult times. have it on good authority that the Queen no longer bleeds - yet the matter of a male heir is still not resolved. a beat) It cannot be long before the King is forced to look outside the marriage. What? And make a bastard King of England? legitimized bastard. What choice does he have? (a beat) Obviously, I've given it thought, and wondered which Howard girl could put under his nose. Imagine the influence that would give us. To be blood family of the next King of England. Equally, imagine if another family were to achieve the same? indicates in the corner, and his two loathsome, ambitious sons and What about Anne? turns, and indicates across the crowds, who's dancing with realise as a `Boleyn' she is not officially a `Howard', but as your sister's daughter.. But she's your eldest, Thomas. Your first born. And your favourite. Wouldn't you prefer her to have a nice, uncomplicated, respectable marriage? Like Mary? If Anne were an uncomplicated, respectable girl like Mary, then I'd say `yes'. But she's not. looks out at She's anything but. and stand in a corner, watching the party continue. ELIZABETH's face darkens.. don't like it. It would cost a fortune to make our house fit for a royal visit. Money we don't have. And what if theDY ELIZABETH(cont'd) king doesn't like her? Or if she sleeps with him but gives him a girl? And what if you were to look on the bright side? Just once? An ominous clap of thunder outside.. Risk nothing, you gain nothing. stares at her husband.. hen was it that people stopped thinking of ambition as a sin, and started thinking of it as a virtue? Easy for you to say. You've had power and wealth all your life. Until married you, Thomas. And was happy to give it up. turns, and walks back inside. knocks on the door of her father's study. She waits. Presently, the door opens. We see inside.. You asked to see me father? Yes. Come in. closes the door. is in a bathroom. Being prepared by for her wedding night. brushes her sister's hair. Rubs oil in her skin. o - the King himself is coming to Hever. I'm so happy for George. Yes. But Father took me aside. It seems he has ambitions for me, too. (a beat) He thinks I'm ANNE(coage dnow...and of not of an nt' ) unpleasing appearance... What? What are you saying..? It's known the King has a wandering eye. Imagine...if he were to like me? But...you could never be more than his mistress. And that's no substitute for a husband. But as the King's mistress the least I'd get after he finished with me would be an Earl. And if fell pregnant? And gave him what his wife has failed to? a beat) Quite apart from the money, it'd be a Duke at least. But what about your happiness? Your future? shrugs, smiles.. could be a happy Duchess. and enter the bedroom. sea of candles. stares at the bed. child. Suddenly terrified. Are you nervous? little. You'll tell me everything in the morning? promise. No details spared? The two hug tightly. Visibly emotional. The door opens, and appears in the doorway. curtseys, gives a last `Good luck' kiss, then goes. stares at her husband. Hold me a moment? envelops with his arms.. (cont'd) I'm so lucky to have a man who is content with what he has. looks at him.. (cont'd) You are, aren't you? smiles, looks at his gorgeous bride.. am the luckiest man in the world. reaches for the wine.. (cont'd) Drink? shakes her head. But tenderly insists.. (cont'd) You should. It will hurt less. nervously drinks.. (cont'd) Lie back. lies down. Then she lifts up her nightdress. pulls down his trousers. extends her hands. Inviting him to join her. slowly lowers himself on top of her. He enters her. smiles, in anticipation of pleasure. side to her one might not have imagined. But one or two strokes later, and WILLIAM's knuckles whiten, his face reddens, then he cries out, and slumps on top of her. looks up. Surely that wasn't it? (cont'd) Thank you. rolls over. stares. Soon snores contentedly. is wide awake. Confused. aybe this is how it's meant to be. The thunder of horses' hooves. huge cloud of dust. The Royal Standard flutters in the wind. Beneath it, a in the KING's uniform, riding hard, dirt kicking up in his wake. The is flanked by a dozen other of the KING's who lead a coloumn of fifty or more It's like an army. legion riding into battle. But it's not, This is just the going away for the week-end. Behind the advance party, is the himself, (30's), handsome, in his prime, surrounded by a dozen or so of his closest (among them the of a grand, tough, intimidating lot. Behind them, comes the KING's a Priest with a large ornate crucifix, a small library of religious books.. Then, in a riot of colour, come the the and the led by the of the Behind them, come the and carrying the King's weapons, his jousting kit, his swords, his armour, his lance, etc. Then come the animals: in cages, and the beagles and pinchers, barking in excitement, and an assortment of for travelling, and hunting. And finally, bringing up the rear, another unit of and a second The family page, is perched on a hill. Keeping watch. Staring into the distance.. Presently, he sees clouds of dust and the sound of thunder approaching. His expression changes... Pandemonium breaks out among and as calls out, "The King!" is being dressed by Hearing the commotion outside, she rushes over to the window to see the approaching looks out of the window. Scans the approaching until she finds the There he is! The young is a dazzling, magnetic, intensely glamorous and handsome figure. total contrast from the bloated, bearded figure of his later years. You think he will like me? Of course, sister. How could he not? turns to face The two embrace tightly. The entire is nervously assembled outside the house, (which we notice has been transformed at great cost. Huge marquees in the gardens. Fountains. Additional staff. Smart uniforms. New extensions to the stables and kitchens). is discreetly hidden, among the is pride of place. Visibly nervous. and are beside her. The proud Everyone bows deeply in deference as the King arrives. Your Majesty, you are most welcome. The King dismounts athletically. His are unleashed, bark excitedly.. Sir Thomas. kisses hand) Lady Elizabeth.. in stiff, new uniform, with trembling hands, brings wine on a tray. takes a glass.. May present my son, George. visibly nervous, bows deeply from the neck. But HENRY's attention has been caught by a beautiful woman behind (while staring at Your Uncle tells me should have you at court. Should It would be a great honour, Sir. dutifully, modestly averts her eyes.. And our daughter, Anne. turns to see No one said anything of a daughter. curtseys deeply... Had we known, we might have come sooner. Your Majesty.. Perhaps you'll allow Anne to show you around our modest house? pleasure. offers her hand. He takes it, then leads away. shoots a look, `Good luck'. leads the through the house. She is followed at a distance by And watched by and from a gallery above.. Here is the library. Charming. And through here, the observatory.. Lovely.. looks up, his eye having been caught by something.. What's that? points at an emblem above a doorway.. falcon, your Grace. can see that. But what's it doing there? More to the point.. (turns 360) ..not just there, but in every corner in the house? have no idea. Ask my father. a beat) Perhaps because falcons are vaguely associative with field sports - field sports with aristocracy - and in the absence of a genuine coat of arms.. (shrugs) ...a man with ambition will do the strangest things. is delighted by ANNE's candour.. That's a sharp tongue you have. a beat) wonder what it might say about me behind my back? Oh, his Majesty has nothing to fear from me. Unless he fears an excess of compliments. smiles, visibly charmed.. Really? And what would they be..? smiles to herself, "Well done, Anne", as and continue down a corridor.. The entire is assembled, frantically changing from her day attire to her finest evening clothes. watches.. Bravo, Anne! The King was quite smitten! Told me so himself. And has requested you sit beside him at dinner. adjusts her hair.. My girl. My dear, remarkable girl. knew you would up to the task. watches. momentary stab of jealousy at FATHER's attention. But as looks over at for support.. smiles. Shakes herself out of it. It's her sister. What was she thinking? is being played. Everyone is dressed in their finest, a packed banquet hall. come to a climax, loud and enthusiastic applause from everyone. gets to his feet.. Well played! And, may say.. (a modest smile) ..an excellent choice of music too! nowing smiles from the and the of etc.. Sir Thomas, Lady Elizabeth, dear Anne. Your health. raises his glass. Cheers and applause from the beaming raises his glass. dinner is served. Everyone is eating. and several close are engaged in debate.. had it from the lips of the Spanish ambassador himself. That our musicians are the envy of all Europe. ..then he was flattering you, your Grace. Our Universities and philosophers, too. ...another lie. That honour would have to go to the Germans. What of our painters, then? Years behind their Italian counterparts. The truth is far from leading the world, we're a provincial outpost, lagging far behind. What? Is no one proud to be English? (turns to Anne? What say you? gulps. The clanking of cutlery. All eyes on her. Me, my Lord? clears throat) know little of such matters, but I've not heard mention of our armies. Undefeated, believe, in a generation. Well said. Or our navy? The finest in the world. It's true. The universities in Spain and the philosophers in Germany may be strong, but are they really the equal of Oxford and Thomas More? Never! doubt there is a country that is fairer in Government, or better protected by nature from her enemies, whose people are happier or more prosperous.. She's right, by God! She's right! is delighted. stares proudly across the room at Who's hand, we notice, is shaking. Her heart pounding in her chest. stops on her way upstairs. You did well tonight. Very well. Quite enough to be invited to court, am sure of it. kisses ANNE's forehead.. Now go to bed. Get a good night's sleep. Because there's still the hunt tomorrow. a beat) You must excel at that. watches go. Admiring her. Then he turns to see his wife, She turns away in disgust. and lie together. In spoons position. is fast asleep. strokes her sister's hair. Eyes open. wo vulnerable, young children. The following morning.. Thirty or more and are gathered. To one side, a deafening pack of (wire-haired Lurchers), barking frantically. t's a scene of great activity, excitement, and anticipation. The helps mount his steed - the biggest and most glamorous stallion of all, with wonderful, ornate saddlery. number of are also going hunting, and we notice they ride pillion, (ie), riding on the same horse as their sitting behind them, holding onto them.. inally, comes out. The turns.. Good morning, Anne. curtseys deeply.. Good morning, your Grace. ho will you be riding with? It's clearly an invitation. He indicates there is room for on the back of his saddle. But fails to read the signal. On my own your Grace. Your own..? leads out her horse. They have invented a new saddle which allows ladies to ride on their own. skilfully mounts the horse, and sits upright.. ut with no man to hold onto? How will you stay on the horse? Why? The same way you hold onto yours, your Grace. flicker behind HENRY's eyes. It's the first wrong move has made. We'll see. yanks the reins on his horse.. Let's away! shoots a look at Then follows. The thunder of hooves.. leads the way out with a pack of some forty or fifty hounds. It's a stirring sight. Following the hounds, come thirty or forty led by the himself. (kicking his horse) Hah! Up ahead, the start to bark. Their pace increases. They've got a scent. The blows his horn.. The begin to increase their pace. The urge their horses to gallop. The hold tight to their Up ahead, a wide-eyed, innocent, lifts it's head.. The sound of the hunting bugle and the roar of approaching footsteps, like thunder. The twitches in fear, then bolts off towards the forest. The and roar across fields. The hounds snarl, almost delirious with primal agitation.. Among the the more advanced have already opened up a clear lead on their weaker counterparts.. n the advanced group, are several his and, of course, They jump over a hedge. One of HENRY's catches the hedge and falls. smiles, then turns to see.. comfortably jumping the hedge herself. HENRY's smile fades. He urges his horse to greater speed.. (kicking his horse) Hah..! The terrified bolts into safety of the forest. The barking locked into the scent, follow. he see this, and some pull up. We've lost him. He's in the forest. Galloping through trees and thick forest is not for the fainthearted. But charges past, kicking up dirt.. Then we must follow. weaves skilfully through low-hanging branches. He looks over his shoulder, follows, close behind.. Sharp branches tear at HENRY's face. Some draw blood. Behind him, several other suffer lashes from the branches, and pull up. But not She kicks her horse harder. Seemingly impervious to the whipping branches.. Hah! Ahead, the darts and weaves. The give chase. alf a mile ahead.. steep ravine, with a sheer drop of twenty-five feet deep. At the bottom, a brook with dangerous rocks, then another sheer climb of twenty-five feet the other side. The arrives, looks, then scampers down the ravine, pursued by the he remaining arrive. They see the scramble up the other side, followed by the slipping in the mud, and struggling with the brook. everal fall. Yelping in fright and pain as they lose footing and fall on the rocks. The pulls up his horse.. raises his hat, and salutes the he King of England defeated by a humble fawn. The laugh, then they turn their horses around and head off. stares. It's a clear opportunity to impress. She looks down at the rocks. long stare, then.. (suddenly kicking horse) Hah! The gasp in disbelief as lurches forward, and leaps into space, heading fearlessly down the sheer ravine. orse and rider almost tumble down the vertiginous, lethal drop. But, reaching the bottom, the horse leaps across the brook, then scrambles up the other side. She made it! Exhilarated, turns, breathing hard. The stares at her. The stare at her. long silence. Nothing but the sound of wind in the trees.. Please, your Majesty. It's not safe. turns and stares daggers at the `Silence'. He stares across the ravine at Their eyes meet. hen he kicks his horse, `Hah!', and lurches forward. He heads down the sheer ravine. The gasp, rush to the edge of the ravine to watch. goes to the edge her side. ENRY's horse slides perilously down the ravine, then struggles to clear the brook, and lands heavily in the water. he struggles to keep control, and as the horse tries to scramble up the bank the other side, it loses it's footing in the mud, it's hooves grasping horrifically at air.. he cry out in horror, covers her mouth as.. The KING's horse falls backwards, unseating sending him flying, and worst of all, landing on top of him as they fall and tumble dreadfully down into the brook, and onto the rocks.. Pandemonium breaks out. The sound of shouting voices, cries of horror, raising the alarm. ANNE's what has she done? slowly comes to, to find himself staring at a number of faces. the of one or two and finally, It's a miracle, Majesty, you have no broken bones.. flinches in agony, tries to move.. My daughter Anne is here. Would like to apologise. (recoils, his pride hurt) No! Get her away from me! opens her mouth, wants to protest, but is hastily ushered out of the room. HENRY's wound is being dressed by And who are you? Mary, your Grace. Anne's younger sister. looks her up and down.. You've been here all week-end? Yes, your Grace. Really? How could have overlooked you? Next to Anne, it's easy to do. Nonsense. sits up, takes better look. Intrigued. a (cont'd) Tell me about yourself. You're married? Yes, your Grace. To William Carey. From Wolsey's office? Yes, your Grace. Then why haven't seen you at court? Because have persuaded him to spend a year or two here first. We have a small manor and some land. Nothing much. But enough to start a family. charmed life in the country? Away from it all? Yes. Everything would have wished for myself. But then my brother died. a beat) And duty called. looks at then.. You don't think he'll miss court? a beat) young, ambitious man? He says not, your Majesty. lowers her eyes.. But, if he ever changed his mind, would always support him. stares at Well said. Strapped and bandaged, is helped onto his horse. Beside him is also on a horse, riding off to court for the first time.. and bow, curtsey farewell.. Thank you again, Lady Elizabeth. We'll take good care of your boy.. (kissing her hand) And Thomas.. embraces him, whispers in THOMAS's ear.. You'll take care of that matter? Consider it done, your Majesty. shoots a lingering look at which notices. Then the King and his entourage ride off. waves farewell to stares. Suspicious. and are sitting together. Presently the door opens, and emerges.. Your Father wishes to see you. and get to their feet. raises his hand.. Just Mary. shoots a quizzical look, then goes with ANNE's smile fades. flicker of suspicion. She follows.. An intimidating atmosphere. Dogs lie at the feet of the of looks up.. Mary, don't know what you said or did - but you obviously made a deep impression on the King. exchanges a look with And he has requested you come to court with immediate effect. MARY's eyes widen in disbelief..'What?' listens at the door. Horrified. What?!? watches from the doorway as the of and smile delightedly, staring at ou're to pack and leave first thing in the morning. shoots a desperate look at her husband.. The King himself has secured you a position in the Queen's household. ut don't want to go to court. Nor does my husband. Silence. ell her. clears his throat. Avoids MARY's eyes.. The King has also offered me a position. As Gentleman of the Privy Council. What? Y'hear that? Gentleman of the Privy Council! Attending to the private and personal needs of his Majesty himself! That's the inner sanctum! MARY's shell-shocked, lost for words.. But what about our future? Here in the country? Put it out of your mind. From now on your home is at court. William, please! Don't you understand what this means? stares imploringly.. They will separate us. Put me in different accommodation. Where the King can always...find me. averts his eyes.. Happily your husband understands the value of such an opportunity. (a beat) For us all. What about Anne? Couldn't she go instead? THOMAS's expression darkens. flicker of pain. The way that girl behaved this week-end, she can count herself lucky she still has a home. outside the door: it's as if a knife had been plunged into her gut. She turns and runs down the corridor.. and lie in bed. is equally wretched. Tears are also running down her cheeks. She stares at her husband.. How could he this to me? My own father. a beat) What if we just refused? We would be cut off. He made that clear. But would that be so bad? stares at him.. Position means nothing to me. Nor wealth. We could find somewhere. small farm. Away from everything. You say that now - but when you're older? And our children are grown up? (comforting her) This won't last long. year. Maybe two. And at the end of that - we'll we have everything we want. (a beat) It's for our ut can't you see? Do this, and we might not a future. is getting ready to leave. She turns a corner and `bang', walks straight into tense moment. The two stare at one another.. I'm so sorry.. What for? You think want the King? Or to be used and abused by him? (puts on brave smile) No! You're welcome to him. have my own plans, which don't involve becoming a rag that will one day be discarded. stares, saddened, `Oh, Anne', but there's no time to talk. She has to go. is left. Her eyes blazing. and ride through London streets escorted by bringing their belongings. They approach Whitehall Palace. Armed slowly open the gates. MARY's face: as the heavy gates open. She shoots a last look at the `free' world outside. Then, she rides through the Palace gates. the heavy doors shut behind her. The outside world has been totally sealed off. Faces appear at palace windows, staring down at the `new arrivals'. mong them: is himself. He stares out of the window. Sees Then he lets the curtain fall. of (late-30's), imperious, intimidating, Spanish. Surrounded by other (mostly high- born, Spanish, and the QUEEN's age). announces.. Mary Carey, Ma'am. looks up..`Who?' Who? The new Lady in Waiting. Really? But was not expecting anyone. Appointed by...his Majesty the King. By my husband? Really? The air crackles with tension. It's school bullying. Well, then she must be some kind of gift. He must have seen in her some special talent that would please me. Tell me. What special talent is it that you have? with icy contempt) Apart from your obvious youth and beauty? errified, stammers.. oetry, perhaps? N-no.. Or dressmaking? Music! That's it! You compose? Or sing? ..I'm afraid not. Your Majesty. Come, you're too modest. turns to a Signor Vasquez. The Spanish obliges by starting to play a well-known tune of the period.. No..really..I beg you, your Majesty. (barks, suddenly terrifying) command you to flinches. Blushing deeply, her skin glowing with perspiration and terror, she begins to sing.. Normally she sings well. But her voice now is strangled with fear. stands rigid, her knuckles whiten, nails digging into her hands, drawing blood. Finally, finishes. The room is silent. All eyes on who stares coldly. formidable adversary. Bravo! nightingale! (the cruel satisfaction of victory) Welcome at court! walks through the packed corridors of court, her face burning from the humiliation. The sound of a voice behind her.. ait! Mary! Stop! But does not hear. She continues walking, distressed, and distractedly enters.. Finally, she is caught by whom we had seen at the window earlier. Younger, also English, a kindred spirit.. know that must have been agony, but put yourself in her shoes. She knows the only reason the King has asked you here is because he desires you. For a wife that must be very difficult. a beat) She's a good woman. Trust me. smiles. manages a smile.. (cont'd) Jane Parker. Mary Carey. The two girls shake hands. You have a brother, don't you? George? Yes. I've seen him a few times at court. And like him...very well. (a beat) But don't think he has noticed me. can't imagine. (a beat) Should mention you to him? Would you? Of course. Happily. smiles. But as soon as MARY's back is turned, the smile fades. large dusty yard, where train for combat, and practise their fighting skills. is with who is putting on his armour.. Not noticed her? Jane Parker? Of course have. How could not? She looks like a goat. Well, she likes you, and asked me to give you this..to remember her by. hands over a handkerchief.. Ugh. Well say you haven't seen me. Or that you forgot. hastily gives it back.. (cont'd) There is something about that woman that makes me feel... (he shudders) gets to his feet, indicates to his friend that he is coming.. And our sister? Any word? You know she took being upstaged by you very badly. Yes, know. And no amount of interventions on my behalf would make her believe you hadn't done it intentionally. But you would never do anything like that. know. finds his helmet, puts it on.. (cont'd) Just give her time. She'll come round. watches go to join the other enters her room, and closes the door. She begins undressing, taking off her clothes, then catches sight of a in the shadows. She gasps. It's the KING's dog. Please, don't be alarmed. steps out of the shadows.. covers herself in modesty, and falls to her knees in a deep curtsey of deference. steps into the light, walks towards her.. wanted to find somewhere we could be alone so might say a few words to you in person. turns, looks around the room.. hope your accommodation is comfortable. realise it's no substitute for the life you had in mind in the country.. (a beat) But please, give me the opportunity to try to make you happy here.. (a beat) NRY(cont'd) The moment met you, realised tails off as unbuttoning her dress.. (tailing off) What are you..? MARY's dress comes off her shoulder. The KING's eyes, however, instead of staring at MARY's beautiful, exposed body, stay focused on her eyes. An uncomfortable moment.. am sorry. (delicately putting her clothes back on You obviously misunderstand me. bows in respect, then turns, and takes his leave, leaving standing in the room.. The of stares in disbelief at His dogs lie intimidatingly at his feet. What? If all the King wanted was coition, he could fetch in a woman from the bath house. a beat) What he wants is a beat) To woo you. And be wooed in return. (a beat) And could'nt you look just a little happier? There isn't a girl in the Kingdom that wouldn't wish to be in your shoes. Your opinion, Uncle. speaks quietly. Lowers her head.. Mine is that it's the greatest insult of all. What? Asking a whore to have feelings, too. An incense-filled Royal Chapel. The is giving mass, in Latin, for the Royal Household. he King sits at the front, on the left. With the men. The ladies are separated, as is traditional, and sit on the right. is lost in prayer. It's not long, however, before he turns to look at Meanwhile, a remote country parish church. Far away. local arrives. He sees two tethered to a tree by the side of the church. He dismounts. Checks no one has followed him. hen he enters the church. In the Royal chapel: the solemnly performs the Eucharist, breaking bread and making wine from blood.. But, in full view of all those in the chapel, the continues to stare at inally, she looks up. Their eyes meet. blushes, averts her gaze. But then, for the first time, she reciprocates. And looks back. This is witnessed by the and further back, by the of and Everyone is pretending to focus on the But none of them can concentrate.. In the country church: The PRIEST's eyes become accustomed to the dark. Everywhere, long shadows, eerie darkness.. Are you there? Presently, a steps into the light. It's Dressed in a shawl. No one saw you? No. You brought the money. hands over a purse of coins. They walk to the altar.. And the groom? Is he here? Up ahead, the slowly steps out of the shadows. Now we see his face. It's Good. Then let us begin. Back at court: the service ends. Everyone in the Royal Household filters out of the church. But it's a very different atmosphere to when they entered.. The extent of HENRY's affection for is now public knowledge evidenced by.. ..the attention and now receive from and and the way in which and her are being neglected. allows herself a private smile of satisfaction. Surprised at how good it feels. To be the number 1. lies in bed, in a room covered in flowers. She admires a beautiful necklace in a box, and a handwritten letter from the We can see from MARY's face how much she likes it. Presently, urgent `knock', `knock', at the door. MARY's eyes widen in excitement. The King? She hurriedly closes the necklace's box. Tucks the letter away in a drawer. She gets out of bed. Anxiously straightens her hair, then goes to the door, to find.. her brother, who bursts in.. George? It's the middle of the night. t's Anne. hat? he's married Henry Percy! (horrified) What? In secret. Without telling anyone! MARY's face falls.. Oh, no...! tailing off) You don't look pleased. Why would be pleased? It would make her the future Duchess of Northumberland. Our sister! But they'll never allow it, don't you see? He's already precontracted to Mary Talbot, and if word of the consummation gets out her reputation will be ruined.. pulls back her sheets.. have to tell Father. Before it's too late.. What? watches go to the door.. Mary..! Wait! Come back! and (the from Mary's wedding), stand in front of the of and and What were you thinking? The marriage of a senior noble is a matter of state. Something only the King can decide.. looks down, avoiding eye contact.. Who knows about this? No one. Then that is how it shall remain. Forever. But you cannot undo what has been done before God. (defiant stare) And consummated too. `Snap', NORFOLK's quill breaks. almost chokes. GEORGE's eyes widen.. (struggling to contain his anger) There have been improper intimacies, too? have lain with my husband. There is nothing improper about it.. My God, if you were my daughter I'd thrash you within an inch of your life.. recoils, terrified.. The boy will return to Northumberland - where he will marry the Talbot girl. As arranged. gives the signal for to escort out. As for you. You will go to France and stay there until you have learned your lesson. What? How could you do this to your sister? You know full well her friendship with the King is at an extremely delicate stage. Any scandal or black mark against Mary's name now could be fatal. dismisses her.. You will join the court of the French Queen. And stay there until your father has forgiven you. goes. follows.. paces anxiously in the corridor. Presently, emerges from the room. Burning with humiliation. Their eyes meet. is about to speak, but cuts her off.. ou told them, didn't you? a beat) How you? Because you would never have got away with it. And it would have ruined your prospects forever. (a beat) Believe me. did it for your good. Really? For good? I'll try to remind myself of that. While I'm in exile. And you're here, in the King's bed, and unchallenged for our father's affection. a beat) That it was for good. Not yours. wait..! storms out. shoots a look, "I'll deal with this", and runs after we fade in and the sound of laughter.. grand We're in a spectacular candle-lit ballroom. play. Large formations of perform elaborately choreographed moves. Among them we pick out.. stalking the party. Ever watchful. On duty. Vigilant. He is distracted by the sight of... His son, surrounded by and his is clearly in his element. Laughing in delight. Very fond and intimate with looks concerned for the first time. n another corner, is in costume, but looking forlorn. She watches proceedings with a blank, distant expression. Presently, a voice behind her.. Why look so glum, Mary? turns to see a behind her. What reason have to be happy? ou have two men, the King of England and both fighting for your love. The is tall. His voice is quiet, but strong. Do know you? You know me, Mary - but not half as well as know you. know you better than anyone here. And love you better than anyone here, too. And if God had made your husband instead of William Carey, one thing know.. (a beat) would never have let you go. MARY's smile fades.. Wait! Who you? lunges for the MAN's to try and remove it, but the retreats into the safety of the shadows. Meanwhile.. All around the crowds part, and a deep voice booms out. Ah! Who have we here?!? turns to see a (unmistakably the surrounded by My name is Kindness. wonder, will you be kind to me? What is it you desire? our love, fair Lady. You demand a great deal. No more than would give in return. notices her is among the masked His eyes giving cues.. It is easy for a man to declare love from behind a mask. ut if remove it, you might reject me. If your feelings were sincere, would never reject you. But you do not know who am? could be ugly. Or poor. o matter how you looked. Or who you were. Really? Then shall hold you to your word. And unmask..! With a flourish, the rips off his mask.. Your Majesty..! urgently nods, `Go on!' theatrically swoons. Falling into the KING's arms. gasp among the he faints! Quick! Take her to my rooms! Call my physicians..! quickly picks up. He carries her through the crowds, out of the ball-room.. watches from a distance. flicker of pain. Then, with great dignity and pride, she turns back to watch the entertainment.. `Thump', the doors open, and is carried into the King's apartments. fusses, brings water. Opens windows. Go! Leave us! Go! bows to the shoots meaningful look, `Don't fail me', and retreats. closes the doors. He and are left alone. makes her comfortable. Thank you, your Grace. `Henry', please. The first rule of this room, is to leave `Your Grace's' and `Your Majesty's' outside. looks up.. Is there anything can bring you? No. Nothing to increase your comfort or well- being? You might ask your servants to bring me some water. goes to get water himself.. There. There no servants. MARY's eyes widen. The of brings her a drink! takes a sip of her drink and watches as goes behind a screen and begins to remove his costume. His mask. notices a mirror, and watches in the reflection of the mirror how removes the costume and status of and becomes a Private. visibly unwinds, his facial muscles relax. He breathes out deeply. His face becomes softer. More gentle. Then he puts on a comfortable robe, and emerges from behind the screen. goes over to a pile of cushions, and flops down - and smiles at So, this is it? This is where the King of England sleeps? And reads. And writes. And finds a few moments each day... (gestures) ...for himself. smiles at (cont'd) You look surprised? am. suppose it's more.. looks at the bed, the books, the pages of writing on the desk.. ..simple than imagined. There's no need for show. am only ever here alone. And yet you invite me here? Because trust you. You hardly know me. man in my position develops an instinct. a beat) You would never lie, could never lie to me. smiles, admitting he's right. No. also sense...that you might relish an opportunity to be yourself, too. Yes. Well, here you only say what you like, do what you like. Very well. smiles. Stretches out her legs. Relaxes.. I'd like an apple, please.. (can't believe she's saying this) ..Henry. jumps to his feet, brings an apple. laughs, `Thank you'. Bites into the apple.. Now it's your turn. What? To say something, or do something you couldn't outside. There are many things cannot admit to in public. Sadness, for example. And loneliness. But when you are loved as much as you are? How can you be lonely? Do you not know what it is to be lonely in a marriage? Yes. do now. married my brother's widow because my father ordered it. As a duty. To keep the alliance with Spain. And she is a remarkable woman. And wife. looks at But never looked at her or longed for her the way do you. reaches out. Their hands meet.. Imagine how different it might have been. For both of us..had we been able to chose for ourselves.. leans forward and they kiss. Gently at first. resisting. Then harder.. ensing this, the picks up and leads her to the canopied bed, and lays her down.. They begin to make love. As radical a contrast to the scene with as it is possible to imagine.. MARY's eyes open. She gasps. Her hands grip the sheets.. and entwined in one another's arms, as the sun rises... Several hours later: is fast asleep in a window seat in the corridor outside. Finally, the door opens. And emerges from the KING's apartment. Good morning. jumps to his feet. Waking rapidly.. have orders to bring you to your father. stares at As he straightens his shirt.. My father..? a beat) Well, we'd better not keep him waiting. turns, leads the way. follows. The of NORFOLK's dogs are eating breakfast out of bowls by the fire. Slurping hungrily. The entire family is gathered. Also present is Well..? stares at her husband.. Did he have you? MARY's eyes burn.. Yes. More than once? stares daggers.. You'd better get used to talking about it. Once you sleep with the king, it's not a private matter any more. Yes. More than once. CAREY's face: a flicker of pain.. So he was satisfied? believe so, Uncle. ood. This is where our work begins. It's one thing to catch the king. Quite another to keep him. turns to ignoring as though she were a piece of livestock.. want you to keep her spotless, hair washed every day. She must read all the latest books and be able to venture and defend an interesting opinion. She must know her music, must be energetic and entertaining - in company and in bed. That's how he likes his women. And if ever she's in any doubt as to how to conduct herself, or what to do next - she should simply watch the Queen. That woman kept him from straying for eleven years. And the effort almost killed her. ut has not heard. He is distracted. He watches from a palace window as, in a stableyard down below.. and return from riding together. The sound of laughter as they dismount, and hand their horses to the stable-boys.. watches as and walk back to the palace together. There's something in their manner, the intimacy between them.. THOMAS's smile fades. `Slap', spreads out a huge architect's drawing of a magnificent ship on a table. He sits with and the of The biggest warship in the fleet. Thirty- two guns and two hundred feet long, and with your permission Thomas.. (We notice THOMAS's clothes have become more expensive, grander) ..I'd like to name her after your daughter. The "Mary Boleyn". looks up in disbelief.. Majesty! I'm...I'm speechless.. onsense. She's an angel. It's the least she deserves. And if there's anything else can do for my friend..as an expression of my gratitude..let me know. THOMAS's tails off. Thinking.. s it happens..there is one thing. Name it. has clearly not stopped thinking about what he saw between and ur son, George. He's of an age now.. You want me to make him a match? bows. Deadly serious.. Yes, your Majesty. Do you have anyone in mind? There is one lady, Sir.. Go on.. Who fear is too high-born for us. And following the unfortunate matter between Anne and Henry Percy, didn't want my children to overreach themselves again.. verreach themselves? can't help smiling.. One is currently in the King's bed. If they are good enough for me, suggest they're good enough for anyone else. So.. (gestures) Who is it? we hear GEORGE's distraught voice.. Jane Parker..? visibly shocked and distressed, stands in front of his father. beg you, Father. No. She's well connected, her father is cousin to the King. And there's money, too. But must actually...marry her? THOMAS's expression changes.. thought you had ambitions for this family. do. And that you wish to make a contribution yourself. Not just stand back and watch your sisters. nods.. Then my advice would be to start behaving like a man. real man. Do make myself clear? walks out. stares after him.. (quiet) Yes, Sir. play. We're at GEORGE's wedding. Attended by the and all the senior It's a markedly grander and posher affair than MARY's earlier wedding, a clear indication of the new, elevated status. formation dance is in progress. At the centre of it: dances with a radiant, triumphant GEORGE's eyes meet those of across the room. y contrast: dances with couple with eyes on for each other. Locked to one another. Blissfully unaware of and uninterested in anyone else. Silently counting the minutes before they can tear off one another's clothes.. Their intimacy is witnessed by who we notice is now drinking heavily, drowning his jealous sorrows.. is dancing with his wife, He hisses through a fixed smile.. For God's sake, it's the wedding of our youngest child attended by the King of England and the greatest Lords in the Land. Would a smile be too much to ask? What's to smile about? I'm a mother with one child on his wedding day looking like he's been condemned to death. he indicates who dances with Another banished abroad, in disgrace. And a third whoring in public with an adulterer. For the moment she's happy. watches who dances with the But will she be happy when he leaves her? Because you know that's how it will end. Only God knows how anything will end. God..? He turned his back on all this a long time ago. stares coldly at his wife. He applauds as the dance comes to an end. and the also clap. whispers sexily in MARY's ear. She laughs. Then is called to one side... is momentarily left alone. She looks up to see standing in front of her, swaying slightly. You're in love with him, aren't you? illiam, you're drunk. How is it? With him? stares - suddenly hard - punishing him. He pleases me. Is that what you want to hear? What does he do to you? Tell me. want to know.. pulls away. But pulls her roughly to one side. sees this from across the room.. know you look at me with contempt. But had no choice. Your father insisted stand aside. What was expected to do? Say `no', husband. (a beat) That was all you had to do. pulls her arm away, and goes. She walks across the room, visibly shaken, and joins the and make love. Two people giving everything of themselves.. Hours later: they lie together, enveloped in one another's arms. is awake. The King asleep in her arms. She lovingly strokes his hair. Watches him breathe. Her face is glowing. Content. And the look in her eyes tells us more eloquently and unequivocally than any sonnet.. ...that she has fallen in love. The sound of groaning. Wretching. Shooting through a half-open door, we see hunched over her basin, vomiting. resently, she emerges from the bathroom. White-faced. Her hands instinctively covering her belly. MARY's eyes widen with the implications. and the of stare at Also present are several and Are you certain? Yes. looks at the who nods.. n that case...I suppose...someone should tell the King. Shooting through a half-open door.. and the of are having a private audience with the whispers something in HENRY's ear.. HENRY's face breaks out in a smile. He delightedly shakes THOMAS's hand. the sound of a voice.. Keep them shut...still shut.. blindfolded is led through doors by THOMAS..into a suite of grand, unfurnished rooms, the most prestigious accommodation at court.. Now open! removes her blindfold. She gasps in disbelief, turns 360 degrees, staring at the size, and grandeur of the location.. There's more. Thanks to you, am to become an Earl. Your brother a Viscount. smiles at who's eyes widen.. (cont'd) In addition, we have received a number of new grants and estates. pointedly, to So our debts are paid off. But remains granite-faced.. Just be aware. These `gifts', this `favour' can go as swiftly as it comes. These rooms belonged to the Duke of Buckingham. Once the King's closest friend. Now his head rots on a spike.. Because he committed treason. But what is `treason'? It's anything the King or his lawyers decide it to be. Anything that offends him, or causes him displeasure. a beat) And can you assure me we'll never do that? turns and walks out. looks anxiously at who gestures dismissively.. Pay her no heed.. wakes up. She gets out of bed. She goes to the window and draws the curtains. Then looks down, and gasps. The floor has fresh drops of blood on it. goes to her bed, and rips back the sheets. Her eyes widen in horror. There is blood all over the sheets. covers her mouth. Lets out a loud cry. The sound of approaching footsteps as come running.. lies on the bed being examined by several and the of look on in concern. Finally, the turns, washing his hands.. Happily, the baby lives. She's not miscarried. THOMAS's face. Overcome with relief.. But the placenta is weak. For the sake of the child.. The clears his throat. This will not be easy.. She must begin her lying-in immediately. (horrified) What? looks up. Her heart sinks. But I'm only three months.. lies in her bed, watching with a forlorn expression as and prepare the apartment for lying-in. with soothing biblical images are hung on the walls. are drawn for darkness. large is placed in a corner. As each is hung, the room becomes darker... ..and darker. ..and darker. cranes her neck to remain in sunlight for as long as possible, but before long.. ..her face slips into darkness, and the room into total silence. And effective imprisonment. Darkness. The stands at the foot of MARY's bed. He is clearly uncomfortable in these `maternal' surroundings.. ou poor girl. All alone in here. But the time will fly by. Will it? It's six months? know. But the most important thing is a healthy child. takes MARY's hand.. (cont'd) I'll come and see you as often as can. promise. kisses then goes. The KING's birthday. The has organised a lavish ball. The entire court is assembled and dancing, but appears sullen, distant. Unable to celebrate. He misses he has several of her prettiest surrounding the Giggling, fragrant butterflies. But shows no interest. The of notices this. flicker of concern. An archery competition is in progress. But pays no attention. He sits listlessly to one side. Ill-tempered and missing mong the are and his They notice the all alone. They talk among themselves. Sensing an opportunity, advances, and presents his pretty daughter to the The of (never far away), notices how modestly and demurely young flirts. She has been well trained. But she makes no impact on He waves the away. Not remotely interested. or the moment. The is visiting He sits by her bed. They hold hands and are talking intimately. This is being watched by the of and NORFOLK's face is dark and brooding.. For the moment he's still visiting Mary. But for how long? The Queen will soon have his head spinning with pretty little Spanish things. Not to mention the Seymours with that girl of theirs. looks up... What we need is someone from family who will keep the King focused on Mary, reminding him of her while she is absent. is about to speak, then changes his mind. What? Speak.. It's just...I was going to suggest Anne. You couldn't control that girl last time. What makes you think it would be any different now? I've had favourable reports from the Dowager Queen in France. It seems she is quite changed. sits up. Her eyes widen in horror.. Why? Sitting beside her in the darkness, is her brother suppose they felt three years of exile was punishment enough. But the King visits me every day. There's no need for her. Or anyone else. They just want to protect you. Leave nothing to chance. But in who's interests do they imagine Anne will act? Certainly not mine. turns, looks all around him.. (cont'd) Why they make this room such a dungeon? Does it really need to be this dark? notices MARY's vexed expression.. Don't worry. She's had three years to forgive you. And she's not going to risk being sent away again. She'll do as she's told, I'm sure. (a beat) Besides, the most important thing is.. moves MARY's lips into an upward shape.. The three of us will be together again. MARY's lips: a reluctant, unconvincing smile.. The thunder of galloping horses. alf a dozen among them a riding side- saddle, tearing across the countryside.. The and the gallop through villages, spraying mud. stop and stare.. pulls a child out of the path of the The and the ride in silhouette against a perfect full moon.. and several of his return from a hunting trip. Several dead are carried on horseback. The atmosphere is celebratory. It's been a good day. Dogs bark in excitement. dinner at court. is at one end, in serious conversation with foreign Presently, at the other end of the table, loud laughter. looks up, then returns to his conversation. It's not long before another loud gale of laughter in the corner of the room. looks up again. Then returns to his conversation. resently, a third roar of laughter at the other end. This time, loses patience.. What's the noise? can hardly hear myself think! At the other end, a gets to his feet.. It's Mistress Boleyn, your Majesty. Her stories about life at the French court. They are particularly amusing. HENRY's expression changes. The room falls silent.. I'm only aware of one Boleyn girl and she is lying-in with a certain child in her belly! gets to his feet.. It's my elder daughter, Anne, your Majesty. She has returned to court. What? That awful girl, Thomas? The one that almost killed me? (a beat) You allowed her back? The time abroad has done her good, your Majesty. I'm certain you'd find her much improved. Really..? looks down the table.. Well, come on. Where are you, other Boleyn girl? Show your face. slowly gets to her feet. looks up. When he sees ANNE's face, his face falls.. is a woman transformed. Gone are the simple clothes, puppy fat and lack of confidence. has become a glorious, head-turning siren; dressed in daring French clothes. er hood is half-crescent, and reveals the hair. Her neckline plunges sexily. Her sleeves are long and loose, offering daring flashes of arm and elbow.. Like every other red-blooded in the room, is utterly mesmerised. Speechless.. So? What is so amusing, Anne? Perhaps we might hear and judge for ourselves? dark, intelligent eyes stare back at Suddenly, all sound fades, and the world shrinks around them: it's as though they are the only two people in the room.. was just giving my thoughts on the new French King. Which are..? That for someone with such great wealth, and power..he has surprisingly little authority as a man. Hah! And is consumed by one particular rivalry he can barely think. eally? And who is this rival? neighbouring King, who's name one is forbidden to mention at court. Whose reputation haunts him in his thoughts and dreams. ipples of laughter, as people guess.. Whose armies and navy thwart his every endeavour. Whose physical and intellectual endowments are known far and wide. laughs too. Enjoying this.. In order to restore his confidence, this French King spends a fortune on anything that glitters, on building of castles with large towers.. artfully gestures the phallic implications.. But these symbols of wealth and virility fail to convince. Talk among the ladies at court in France suggests.. stops herself... What? That in this department too, the King has his shortcomings. ANNE's gesture, (discreetly wiggling her small finger). stares for a moment. deathly silence. Has she gone too far? Then smiles. Delighted. bark in bewilderment. Soon everyone in the room laughs too. xcept for the and his sons, and who glower, mute, at the end of the table beside their sister beams with excitement and satisfaction... You should have seen the Seymours! Their faces! lies in bed. Sitting by her side is her father.. They must have thought that with you out of the way, they had a real opportunity with that pale-faced thing of theirs, Jane... smiles as he remembers.. (cont'd) But Anne put pay to that. Last night, the King only had eyes for us Boleyns. shoots a private, knowing look.. Or you mean. What? 'm wary of any suggestion that Anne would serve anyone but herself. France can't have changed her much. n this occasion am quite satisfied she was being loyal to you. Really? stares hollow-eyed.. (cont'd) Then ask yourself this. If she is really so concerned for my well-being... (a beat) ...then why hasRY(conot dcome to see me she nt' ) since she returned? and several of his closest are sparring close- combat sword fighting. It's tough, physical, no-holds barred stuff.. and his (among them are being undressed and washed by their and You're a fortunate man, George. To be blessed with two such sisters. Yes, my Lord. There is a powerful physicality, a sexual confidence to which he exudes, even among men. He moves closer to Tell me. Are they as different in temper as they are in looks? Oh, yes. Each has her own, quite distinct virtues. Mary for example.. I'm familiar with Mary's. Tell me about Anne's. Anne? Well, she's strong. Some might say `difficult'. Headstrong. With a fiery temper. But with it comes great passion, too. It's both the best and the worst thing about her. a beat) There are no half measures with Anne. Careful, you'll make me think chose the wrong Boleyn girl. Oh, no. I'm certain Mary is the right choice. You will have a serene, happy, life with her. The risk is with Anne, it might be like being caught in a wild summer storm. Is that so..? has tried to put off. But might just have said the wrong thing. storm, you say..? small, precious-looking sits on a table. From the King, madam. looks at the box. Her heart misses a beat. It carries the unmistakable royal seal. Open it. stares.. said `open it.' The opens it. Other crane their necks, stand on tiptoes. Inside is a large pearl pendant. The gasps. too. Covers her mouth. It's beautiful.. But from somewhere, she manages to find the strength.. Now close it again. And send it back. The stares in disbelief.. (cont'd) You heard me. The bows, and leaves, taking the box. watches, a look of mischief in her eyes. She's up to no good. The nervously stands in front of the holding the box.. She did what? Sent it back, your Grace. HENRY's face. Confounded.. Sent it back? in the King's livery, holding a larger, more expensive looking walks towards the Boleyn house.. shakes her head, and sends the gift back. She looks anxious. Knows this is a high risk game she's playing. The stands in front of the holding the rejected in his hands.. What? Again? The same walks towards the house. This time holding an even larger, more expensive-looking Again, shakes her head, and sends the gift back. The is in a meeting with several on an important matter. The doors open. He looks up to see.. .the returning with the latest HENRY's smile fades. `Crash', the flanked by several of his most intimidating bursts through doors, and storms along a corridor. It's an impressive sight.. People scatter to get out of the way. The bursts in. Everyone leaps to their feet. stop and stare and curtsey. bows, clearly thrown.. Your Majesty. turns full circle, looking for someone.. Your daughter. Where is she? Mary..? Anne! hears the KING's voice. Her eyes widen. She looks down. Sees smiles privately - it's confirmation that her strategy has worked. t that moment, sees her, calls out, `Anne!'. ANNE's smile fades. dashes up the stairs.. who is not properly dressed for the rushes back to her room. follows. closes the door.. Anne.. (hurriedly dressing) Your Grace? They speak through the door.. You received my gifts? Yes. And? They did not please you? On the contrary, my Lord. They pleased me greatly. Then why did you return them? Now opens the door. She appears wearing a stunning outfit.. steps into the corridor. Closes the door behind her. ecause my sister lies in bed with your child. If you wish to please me, Sir, then send her the gifts you send me. have shown Mary enough kindness and generosity. It's you want, Anne. beg you, my Lord, do not do this. What has changed so? Don't you see? have changed. But Mary is still the mother of your child. And even if she weren't.. What? How could forget that you chose her above me when we first met? You liked her better. Not true.. Either way, could never betray my own sister.. (a beat) NE(cont'd) Now beg you, leave me. This is too difficult to bear. You see! The same pain as mine! It proves you feel the same way! Perhaps. But since it can never come to anything.. Let me decide that. For now, you have given me hope. goes on bended knee, kisses her hand, and goes. is left alone. She breathes out. Then looks down at her hands. hey are shaking. is asleep. Dead of night. Suddenly she wakes up, and holds her stomach, `Ouch!'. It's the first contraction. is asleep. The sound of voices. commotion outside. The sound of banging on his door.. Sir Thomas! It's Mary..! cries out in pain. The contractions become stronger. and urgently do their business. Pots of boiling water. Primitive surgical instruments. arrives, ready to perform the last rites.. The of and arrive in MARY's bedroom, and stare anxiously as the labour begins in earnest.. Does the King know? He's on his way. who overhears this, surreptitiously adjusts her dress. screams in agony. The labour is well and truly under way. Medically, it's a primitive, brutal affair.. No comprehension of sterilisation. have dirty hands. use rusty, blood-stained instruments.. Presently: the arrives with several Any moment, your Grace. But the hasn't heard. He has seen Suddenly, it's as if all sound, all vision disappears, except for He stands beside her.. All around them the violence and dramatic activity of the birth unfolding; but for all their connection with it, and might as well be in a rose garden.. Anne.. stares ahead at MARY's bed.. Anne, love you.. Your Grace, this is not the time.. love you Anne. cannot stop thinking about you. cannot eat, cannot sleep.. But how could ever you? cranes his neck to listen.. When have seen how you have betrayed first your wife. And now my sister. takes to one side... vow from this moment forth will never lie with my wife, or speak to your sister again. will do anything you ask.. MARY's contractions build. Birth is imminent. and work to deliver the baby. thinks, then.. Then don't acknowledge the child. is thrown.. What? With a blood-curdling scream, finally gives birth. and crowd into the room, anxious to see.. boy! turns towards beaming with happiness.. It's a boy, your Majesty. strong, healthy boy. HENRY's face: a boy? His eyes fill with emotion. This is what he has waited for. son. notices his conflict, and prompts him again.. What my sister has given you, could, too. looks at the then turns to face His eyes are full of conflict, then..he silently nods. ANNE's face breaks out in a smile.. Very well. Then, in front of everyone, not caring how inappropriate it is, falls to his knee, takes ANNE's hand and kisses it. The audible sound of gasps. watches in horror as falls to his knees and kisses ANNE's hand.. (a dagger in her heart) Henry..? gets to his feet, then turns and walks away without looking in the direction of or the (cont'd) My Lord..? stares after the but he does not turn around. Instead, MARY's eyes meet ANNE's. ANNE's eyes stare back. The ultimate moment of revenge. barely perceptible smile of satisfaction, then turns and goes. The and stare at one another, visibly embarrassed by what they have just witnessed. The clearing of throats, averting of eyes. Then they get on with their work to the sound of the MARY's cries.. `Crash', and burst into the study, angrily slamming the door closed behind them. is inside. Damn you! Three years we've been working on this! Not a single detail was left to chance! And now, in the moment of our greatest glory.. stares at All can say is you'd better have a plan. And it had better work. stares back defiantly.. Or what...Uncle? Stop it! Both of you. What shall we do about Mary? And the child? Or have we forgotten them already? Mary should go back to her husband. Not a flicker of emotion on her face. She has been inconvenienced long enough by this family. Fine. Then you can be the one to tell her. stares at think you've earned that privilege. turns and walks out. ANNE's smile fades. lies in bed. She looks pale. Exhausted. stares into the room through a crack in the doorway. flicker of doubt. What has she done? To her own sister? checks herself. Enough sentiment. She swallows it. nd enters. looks up as enters, and freezes.. How can you show your face in here? understand you're angry - but be assured. did nothing, except remind him of you. Oh, spare me. You did this deliberately. As revenge. (a beat) And now you have what you wanted you probably think justice has been done. Well, hasn't it? Be careful, that's my advice. Learn from my experience. Because he'll only do to you what he has done to me. Never. I'll make sure he understands I'm a greater thing by far. That he can never have me until he makes me a far greater offer. You'll never get Henry Percy back, if that's what you mean. That's not what mean. ANNE's eyes burn with anger.. And don't you ever mention his name to me again. I'll never forget how you betrayed me. If that's what you think, fine. Tell yourself that. did, sister. Every day for three years. turns, and walks out. is leaving Pale. Weak. Her belongings have been packed into boxes. Ahead of her, the is being carried by led by walks across a courtyard, then stops in her tracks. the and are mounting horses to go riding together. lifts up into the saddle behind him, (how she has learned!). holds tight, her arms wrapped around his waist.. At that moment, looks over and sees Their eyes meet. They stare for a beat, then.. kicks HENRY's horse, `Hah!', and they ride out. Galloping into the distance. MARY's face: fighting to hold onto her dignity. watches her, his eyes burning with sympathy. to reveal, this is all being watched by from a palace window above.. turns, and coldly lets the curtain drop.. and her entourage travel through the countryside in a small caravan of horses and wagons. It's raining heavily. The rain continues. MARY's carriage approaches the manor house. At one time this was everything she wanted. Now it's a prison. sits at the dinner table with her husband, who's health has deteriorated. He drinks heavily. shadow of his former self. He stares at the Have you christened the child? Henry. see. painful smile.. And is he to take my name? Or is he to be a Fitzroy or some other sign that he is a royal bast... He is to be Henry Carey. see. silence, then.. Well, then, here we are. stares at Clearly still in love with her. could pretend none of this ever happened. Start again. (a beat) If you could. MARY's face. Manages a brave smile. lies in bed, her eyes open and staring blankly at the moon outside, as makes love to her. After a short, frenzied thrashing..he climaxes, then as before, rolls over and falls asleep. stares at the ceiling. Gorgeous sunshine. Greenwich Palace at it's most beautiful. and walk through the gardens. Out of earshot of the entire court which is assembled outside.. Well, have done what you asked. Will you give yourself to me, now? As what? My one true mistress. To whom am loyal above all others? But it's not true. You are loyal to the above all others. My wife? barely see her. But she sits on a throne beside you. Accompanies you to every state function. For appearance sakes only. In every other regard, our marriage is a sham. Still, she is your And ever present. And feel her eyes on me. And those of her spies. nervously looks left and right.. And look at us. Forever reduced to meeting in secret like this. Speaking in whispers. a beat) Hardly conducive to passion? Well, what would you have me do? watches from a distance as talks to We do not hear their dialogue, but the two are having a heated discussion. Voices are raised. pleads with the to be reasonable. silences him angrily, then walks out.. enters a lavish drawing-room, and sits down. She picks up a book, and pretends to be reading. enters, sidles up behind putting his arms around her, then.. Wolsey has agreed to draw up plans for the Queen to be sent to a nunnery. kisses on the neck.. She will protest, of course. She won't go quietly, but she knows she has failed to give me a son, and deserves her exile. kisses Which leaves you all alone at court.. He begins to unbutton her dress.. ...queen in all but name. Mother to any future heir. unbuttons and kisses lower, lower. So, is this assurance enough? Will you give yourself to me now? flicker behind ANNE's eyes, then.. I'd like to. But I'm afraid find the insult too much to bear. What insult? Because as long as we remain unmarried, any child gave you would forever be daubed `bastard' and a `whore'. ut what alternative is there? throws hands up in exasperation) My love for the Queen may have died, but even you must concede, she is still very much alive. Katherine of Aragon is alive. That woman is not worthy of the title `Queen'. Oh, Anne. really do not know why we waste time talking of convents when you could annul the marriage. Annul it? That woman married two brothers and therefore sinned against God. But she never consummated the marriage with my brother. They were married six months. Arthur was a sick man. And Katherine is a shrewd woman who knew that her position as Queen would never be safe until she bedded your brother. (a beat) Talk to your advisers. They will tell you as much. walks out. stares. sits in her study working. appears in the doorway. His face is dark. Conflicted. Wolsey has agreed to charge the Queen? But that's wonderful. ANNE's smiles, then notices.. Why do you look sad? Because she will contest it. Which means putting her on trial. And hearing these delicate matters in public. es. But any court made up of Bishops will surely find in favour. And declare the marriage invalid. Now it's ANNE's turn to start kissing round the neck.. hen you, my sweet Lord, will be free to remarry. (sensing his arousal) Then can give myself to you fully. kissing him lower, lower..) And give you everything you.. (a beat) ..desire. stops, leaving highly aroused.. It's mid-winter. lone appears on the snowy crest of the hill looking down on Rochford Hall. t's (now bearded). He kicks his horse. Rides down towards the house. fire roars. warms himself, staring at MARY's new baby daughter, in a a cot. She's beautiful. Thank you. brought gifts from your family. night-dress from your mother. (to This from your Uncle George. produces a small wooded sword from behind his back. Little takes the sword. Swooshes it with excitement. Please be sure to thank them - though one wonders what's kept them so busy that not a single one of them found time to visit the new baby. It's Anne. She's turning this country on its head. She has persuaded the king to test the validity of his marriage, and put the QueenM on trial. What? She continues to hold out. Expertly witholding her favours until... ..until what? Until he makes her the ultimate offer. MARY's eyes widen.. High stakes indeed. follows out to the stables where freshly watered and fed horses are waiting.. And my brother George? Continues to be promoted. As does your Father. lost track of their latest titles. smiles. Mounts his horse.. ow is your husband? heard he was unwell. He is. I'm sorry. stares at her. Their eyes meet. opens his mouth, for a moment it looks as if he's about to finally declare his feelings, then.. Mary..! CAREY's voice calls out from inside. STAFFORD's expression changes. Now's not the right time. He kicks his horse, and rides off. lying in bed, emaciated, coughing blood, weak and sick, calls out for help, `Mary!' walks down a corridor towards her husband's bedroom. As she goes, she passes a window. She stops. And looks out. In the distance is STAFFORD's horse. Reaching the brow of a hill.. At that precise moment, STAFFORD's horse reaches the top of the hill.. (pulling horse up) Whoa.. turns, and faces back down at the house. He takes a last look. For a moment there is a connection between them both. hen, he turns, and kicks his horse, and rides over the brow. watches him go, then stops - catches herself feeling something for the first time. Then she turns and walks along the corridor.. ..back in the direction of CAREY's coughing. hall filled with and from both sides. Arguably the grandest, most significant divorce proceedings in history. watches from a distance as talks to Then turns. He walks towards The Queen has insisted a Papal representative be present at the trial. But Wolsey has assured me the trial will proceed for appearance sake only. We have our verdict. Then what troubles you? One or two friends have refused to lend their support. Among them, Thomas More. (a beat) And then there's the small matter of my conscience. Why? You have justice on your side. stares, conflicted.. Do strokes his head. Pacifying him. But the look on her face tells us - this is getting harder and harder. sits at breakfast. Reading official correspondence. Legal documents. And private letters. e sorts through the various scrolls, matters of state, then finds one. letter in a hand he does not recognise. quizzical look. cracks the seal and begins to reads the letter. Presently, his expression changes. Then his face darkens ominously. His knuckles whiten.. and the of storm down a corridor. Their faces are grim. It's a terrifying sight. `Crash', the door flies open. and burst in. is in the bath. She covers herself.. `Mary Talbot'. Who? Mary Talbot!! The girl that married Henry Percy. It seems she has petitioned the King, demanding a divorce from her husband( on the grounds.. he can hardly bring himself to say the words) ...that his prior betrothal to you was actually.. (his knuckles whiten) ..consummated. ANNE's eyes widen in horror..`What?' knew this would come back to haunt us! must go to the King. No! He doesn't want to see you! Or hear a word from your lips! He's far too angry. a beat) It seems the only Boleyn he will speak to, the only person who's testimony he will trust in this matter.. (a beat) ...is Mary. ANNE's face. dagger in her heart. Mary? cemetery in mid-winter. CAREY's coffin is lowered into the ground. dressed in window's black, steps forward, take a shovel, throws earth on the grave. walks back to comfort the The elderly continues with the service. bows her head. Then she senses someone's eyes are on her. She looks up, and her expression changes.. There is Her brother. Standing among the handful of mourners. Staring at her. The entire family is assembled. the of and, at the centre of proceedings, herself. The atmosphere is tense. Presently, the door opens, and enters the room. In widow's weeds. All eyes on her. And her sharp intake of breath, a ripple of shock at the state of them. In simple country clothes. curtseys.. Mary. n awkward silence. holds her CHILDREN's hands.. We're so sorry. clears throat) About your husband.. Several are assembled, fussing over Transforming her from penniless country widow to sophisticated courtier again. enters, (unseen by and ushers everyone out. She takes the brush from the departing and continues to brush MARY's hair. uch beautiful hair. earing ANNE's voice, freezes. Thank you for coming. looks up. Notices ANNE's hands are shaking.. hate how this matter has come between us. wanted to come to see you after your daughter was born, and again when your husband died, but.. It's fine. pulls away. Raises her hand.. Leave me. Please..? stares at her lips trembling.. I'm frightened, Mary. What have done? turns away. Avoids ANNE's eyes. The sits in his private apartment. He looks up as enters, and curtseys deeply. Seeing his enthusiastically greets her. Lapping at her. looks at the She is overcome with emotion, but finds the strength to hide it.. Ah! Mary! Come in. walks closer. Closer.. (beckons) Into the light. walks closer. looks at her.. The Other Boleyn Girl. I'd forgotten how beautiful you were. looks at him. Something has changed in him. perceptible darkness around the eyes. sadness.. ou asked to see me, your Grace? The members are pacing outside. Anxious. and exchange looks. the door opens. emerges from the King's apartments. er entire stares expectantly at her. steps forward, barely able to conceal her anxiety.. And..? is putting the children to bed, tucking in. Mama? What's the matter? MARY's face: visibly upset. Her hands shaking. (putting brave face on) Nothing. smiles, tenderly kisses appears in the doorway. Watches through a half-open door. Notes how loving is as a mother.. gets to her feet. Walks towards closes the door behind her. stares at her, then.. (with difficulty) am forever in your debt. You owe me nothing, sister. did it that we may finally draw a line beneath everything that has happened between us. hen let it be exactly that. new start between us. Here at court. embraces who stiffens. Thank you. But I'd rather go back to our home in the country. What? That damp old ruin? With no food? Or warmth? a beat) Why don't you let your family look after you? Your children would have the best of everything here. They would grow up safe and secure. stares, horrified. But before she can reply... The sound of a commotion, from outside. The sound of trumpets. The unmistakable noise of arriving veryone rushes to a window. Looks down to see a small t the centre of everything: an grand, old, bearded climbs down from an opulent carriage. ho's that? The Papal Legate. Sent by the Pope to preside over the Queen's trial. looks first at then back out as the long procession dramatically enters the Palace Gates. So, it's true. It's really happening? suddenly looks pale. Vulnerable. Frightened. Yes, it is. Stay with me, please? need my sister by me side. huge crowd is assembled. Despite the intimidating presence of the KING's the people shout vigorously in support of Crying out her name. The arrives. ast cheers go up. We're in a packed courtroom. The room is filled with the country's highest-ranking bishops. To one side: and watch from behind a screen.. hears the CROWD's cheering for the Screams of support and affection, `Long live Queen Katherine', `Our one true Queen'. looks anxious.. The crowds are with her. The crowds have no vote. a beat) And the bishops that do are in Wolsey's pocket. watches as enters court. The sees and starts walking directly towards them.. (cont'd) God, she's coming towards us. walks towards the screen, reaches it, then pushes it aside, intimidatingly flanked by her So..the Boleyn whores. Two former ladies of mine. Hiding in shadows. (a beat) What did do to upset you, that you should turn against me like this? You failed to give England an heir. And that upsets you so? What upsets the King upsets me. straightens. Big mistake. How dare you! (calling out) Katherine, Queen of England, come into court..! KATHERINE's try to drag her away from but she wrenches herself free.. ou want me to creep away and become a nun? Well, shall not. You want me to lie before God and admit my first marriage was consummated? Well, it was not. You want me toUEEN KATHERINE(cont'd) retire and withdraw my daughter's claim as sole rightful heir to the throne? Well shall not. Not in a thousand years, not if you rack me to within an inch of my life... (beat) am Katherine, Queen of England, the King's one true wife, and mother of the heir to the throne. Beloved of the people, and beloved of a King you have bewitched. turns and enters the packed courtroom. She makes no reply to the instead walks over to where the sits, and falls onto her knees.. looks at who is visibly shaking. And tries to compose herself. Throughout the courtroom, people exchange looks. Gasp. is completely disregarding the court, Campeggio and Wolsey, and appealing directly to her husband.. My Lord, how have offended you? For twenty years, have been a true, obedient wife. have loved all those whom you loved, and given you children though it has pleased God to take them away. If there is any just cause that you can allege against me, will happily depart to my shame and dishonour, but tell you, as God is my witness, there is none. sits in silence, but can barely contain his rage. (cont'd) So, beg you, dear husband, to spare me this humiliation. But if you will not, and am to be tried.. (defiant) You are. ..then let it be in a proper court and by the only authority recognise. His holiness himself. An audible gasp from the court. shoots a look at `What?!?' is horrified, know nothing of this.' gets to her feet, and dramatically walks out of the court, stopping only to pause by a window.. The cheers from the loyal who are waiting outside ring through the court. looks dark, thunderous. He storms out of court. watches, visibly shaken... Since it has pleased the Queen to absent herself from the court, the trial will simply proceed without her. gets to his feet. The trial begins.. The entire is assembled. paces up and down. is with her children.. Wolsey promised the King his verdict. Instead he has humiliated him. But they are continuing with the trial. And the Bishops will still find in the King's favour. Yes. But without the Pope's blessing, the result will seem hollow. a frustrated gesture) If only the King would take matters into his own hands. And do what? His only option would be to reject the Catholic Church? And his faith would never allow it. Nor his good sense. Breaking with Rome would isolate England politically. Leave us at the mercy of the Protestants. But the alternative is leaving this country without an heir. Failing in his duty as a King. And risking civil war. stops thinks.. (cont'd) omehow need to make him understand that it is a fair price for a legitimate heir. looks at (cont'd) One he could hold in his arms.. ANNE's face: an idea forming.. (cont'd) strong, rosy-cheeked boy.. looks up. Sees all eyes staring at her.. (becoming suspicious) What? along with and several of his are walking along a corridor. They turn a corner, then stop. freezes. He's seen something. And the impact of it has made him stop in his tracks. In the gardens outside, are and playing. The KING's face: it's as if all sound goes silent. He stares, transfixed, at the boy. He hears nothing except HENRY's laughter. He sees nothing except HENRY's golden locks. watches from a distance, her heart cracking as dismisses and the and goes out to join and t seems to have a profound affect on him.. walks towards And bends so as not to frighten the boy.. Who's this? smiles, maternally strokes the boy's hair.. Go, on.. My name is Henry. Is it, now? fine name. (raises eyebrow) And how old are you? Four, Sir. to see watching helplessly from inside the palace. Tears are streaming down her face. appears, and puts her arm round MARY's shoulders in comfort.. in the gardens, and his father continue to get to know one another.. (cont'd) Is that sword real? think so. Would you like to see it? draws it, and shows the boy, who's eyes widen in excitement.. Now, `on guard'. and begin to play fight. As they do, our slowly, slowly pulls back to reveal.. The scene is being watched by: her nose pressed against a window in the palace, as she continues to watch play with her From a window high up, we notice: has appeared, too. continues to play with the boy. It's clearly a powerful emotional experience for him. Gradually, other appear at the palace windows.. First THOMAS's. Then NORFOLK's. Then MARY's. Finally back to Watching on tenterhooks. Unsure how this will play out. clap of thunder. storm breaks. Rain pours. screaming in protest, surrounded by wailing is dragged roughly away from court by a unit of How dare you! (struggling) Take your hands off me.. The drag the away, her heart-breaking kicking and screaming continues. As she disappears.. We this is being watched shadows by the himself.. His face: burning with guilt and self-loathing. The door flies open. is reading, alone. She looks up to see his eyes ablaze.. Now you will give yourself to me. looks up.. thought had made myself clear. Until we are married, there is no questi.. Silence! Enough of your (tearing at her dress) have torn apart this country for you, gone against every principle in my heart, I've endured the doubts and counsel of good men and silenced them with the axe...just to be with you.. tears her dress. He forces himself on top of her. Now prove to me it was worth the sacrifice. He pushes her back against a table, slamming her down, and enters her roughly. cries out in pain.. Stop, you are hurting me..! That night: is being groomed by How was he with you? As a lover? Tender. a beat) Surprisingly so. a beat) Why? ANNE's face. Haunted. Fearing the worst. No reason. we the sound of bells ringing.. small ceremony. Held in secret. The distant sound of crowds protesting. Booing. Jeering. watches from the shadows as marries and a visibly pregnant (in we see sub-titles) Do you, Henry Tudor, take Anne Boleyn as your lawful wedded wife..? HENRY's face: eyes burning with self-loathing.. do. Their voices are almost drowned by the of protest and dissent coming from the streets..`Whore', `Witch'. play in the corner, struggling to drown out the sound of the party is in progress. the bride, is at the centre of proceedings, visibly pregnant and finally Queen. But it has brought her no peace. The cacophony from outside visibly troubles her. stands by her side. Maid of honour. Did you hear? On the way to the church? They were calling me a witch. All that will die down as soon as they get to know you. But what if it doesn't? What if they hate me forever? They won't. They will see how much the King loves you, and follow. (haunted, hollow) How much the King loves me? shoots an anxious look over at who is with in the corner, lost in serious conversation.. ister, wonder if you've given any thought..to the matter of my returning to the country. With the children. ANNE's face: her expression changes. Suddenly fearful. What? No! need you here more than ever. Besides, as the Queen's sister, you can't live alone out there like some gypsy. We need to make you a proper match. earing this, the passing freezes.. What about the Duke of Suffolk? indicates an ugly, fat All the ladies at court are mad for him. Or Lord Fardingly. indicates an courtier, in his 60's) Marry him and you'd own half Scotland.. STAFFORD's face. is walking back to her apartments, when runs after her, appearing in the corridor behind her.. Wait! Mary.. catches her up.. couldn't help overhearing. And before you agree to any of your sister's matches, let me just say.. takes a deep breath. His heart racing.. have saved money...not a lot...but enough. I've my eye on a place in the West...Tatton...near where grew up.. turns, an incredulous look.. hat? (surely this is a joke) Stafford? blurts it out.. Mary...I love you. There..I've said it. From the moment joined your family.. Wait.. looks at him. lightening flash of recognition. She's heard those words before, and puts two and two together.. It was you, wasn't it? At the masked ball? Yes. Oh, Stafford.. Mary..I have watched how your family has treated you. If you came withFFORD(cwould )never me..I ont'd betray you...or take you for granted..I would love you and cherish you to my dying day.. But it's impossible. You know that. Now Anne's Queen, my family would never allow it. And you would What think? After everything they have done to you? stares incredulously. Then goes. MARY's face. Lost in thought. STAFFORD's words still ringing in her ears. She sits at the foot of ANNE's bed. sits in bed. Heavily pregnant. On the other side is God, look hideous. Does it hurt? Little nips and stabs. isn't listening. She is lost in thought. Just imagine. It it's a boy. The unholy trinity will be mother, uncle and aunt to the next King of England. But if it isn't? The King will take that as evidence of God's displeasure. And will turn further against me. He's already become so cold. touches her stomach anxiously.. They say you can tell by the shape of the stomach. Mary, what do you say? Boy or girl? tails off when she sees Miles away. What's the matter with her? looks up, `What?' You've been like this for days. What? Mooning. You're not in love, are you? What? (blushing) Certainly not.. gestures dismissively.. (flustered) In love! returns to her book, flicking pages. But privately she is shocked. Is it that obvious? darkened room. screams out. She is in the middle of giving birth. With a bone-chilling scream, a head appears.. And again, one more.. pushes again. holds her. howls in agony. Her nails dig into the sheets. last, primal, blood-curdling roar of pain.. It's done, your Majesty..! Well done... and swarm around the baby. despite having lost a great deal of blood, tries to sit up.. And..? It's a girl! takes the child from the holds it for beautiful, healthy girl. is overcome by maternal love, but realises what this will mean. She stares at the baby. Fear filling her eyes.. girl? watches from a distance, as and tell the King. staggers from the disappointment, as if he had been delivered a blow.. She has named her Elizabeth. After your mother. Is the child healthy? Perfectly, Sir. stares, hollow-eyed. Finally.. Well, if we can have a healthy daughter, we can have a healthy son. turns, and without a word, pushes past everyone, and leaves. is left alone, her heart breaking.. stares at stab of compassion. Not long ago the same thing happened to her. Hoping to console hands her beautiful new over to her... takes the in her arms. Filled with love for something that will almost certainly mean her destruction. Her shoulders shake with tears. stands by a window, staring out. Her hands wringing with anxiety. is in another corner, tending to baby Who is it? leaves the goes over to the window. Looks out. Down below, is walking with an attractive young Lady Somerset, believe. Yesterday it was the wife of the French Ambassador. The day before with the Countess of Salisbury. (a frustrated gesture) How could he that to me? So stares at Now know how it must have been for you. reaches for MARY's hand. Their hands touch. Briefly. Then pulls away her hand, still not quite ready to forgive.. And goes to tend to the crying is with her children, reading them a bedside story. From next door, the sound of raised voices. The and are having a furious row. But is not listening.. You can't ignore me like this. am your wife! Why don't you just admit it! ecause it's not true! Liar! can smell the whore on you! Get away from me! You disgust me! the sound of someone being struck. and are together. is combing her hair. Strands of it come loose in her hands. Her eyes are hollow with stress. Her skin pale and covered in a film of perspiration.. struck him today. What am doing? am destroying this all on my own.. looks left and right. Makes sure no one is within earshot. Goes to check outside her door, then returns.. can't sleep at night! And without sleep cannot think! Oh, Anne.. nd it's getting more and more difficult to arouse him. Some nights he cannot do it...at all. have to resort to ever more disgusting...then he hates himself in the morning...hates me even more for what made him do... eyes stare. She rocks back and forth.. It's slipping away, Mary. can feel it. takes ANNE's hand. Envelops it in hers. The sound of ugly, loveless sex. Cries of pain. tries to keep the aroused. Demeaning, cruel, shaming, loveless sex. 1 repeatedly strikes her. Hating her. Hating himself. In the neighbouring room: the ugly sounds of and HENRY's sex come through the walls. covers her ears with a pillow, blocking out the noise, and escapes to the only safe world she knows. That of her dreams. and are watching intently as is being examined by several nbearable tension. Finally a straightens, turns to face the And..? The PHYSICIAN's face: he nods. magnificent winter party to celebrate ANNE's pregnancy. The River Thames is frozen over. It's a lavish spectacle. Jousting on ice-skates, bear-baiting with dogs, skate- dancing, sledges and fire-eaters and Muscovite tumblers. The threads his way through and Wherever he goes, people stop their conversations, bow in fear. Inimidated. visibly pregnant, sits on a throne. Alone. She looks drawn, frightened, and tired. An unmistakable echo of at the masked ball earlier. And so, it's come to this. Our sister is with child, and all England's fate is in the balance. indicates (cont'd) If it's a boy, the King will have been vindicated in getting rid of his first wife, and his authority will be unassailable. But if it isn't. Or if, God forbid, she miscarries. indicates who's face is also drawn, dark, malevolent, suspicious. Barely recognisable. The King will have to move swiftly to silence his enemies. He will claim innocence. That he was corrupted. Anne will swiftly be replaced as Queen, by someone more `acceptable'. (a beat) And we Boleyns will never be able to show our faces at court again. That's no bad thing. shudders to herself. Holds her children protectively. Anyone with any sense would have run away from this hell-hole already. As far as they could go. ike the wise William Stafford. turns... What? You didn't know? Sold up and went. Left for the country. Just like that. Gone to live in some place called.. (under her breath) ..Tatton. Where he grew up, apparently. Did you know he came from a better stable than all of us? His grandmother was a Beaufort, cousin to the King. And he never mentioned it. (shrugs) Who'd have guessed? shrugs, and skates off with We pull back to reveal they are being watched by ..who looks drained. Lonely. Worn out by the humiliation of her failed marriage and the agony of unrequited love. bolts awake in the middle of the night. Her face is pale. She is covered in a thin film of perspiration. She flinches in pain. Holding her stomach.. Immediately doors open, and several and appear. But composes herself. I'm fine, thank you. (visibly paranoid) Just a bad dream. Reassured, the fill ANNE's glass with water.. (flinches as she speaks) But fetch my brother and sister, will you? The bows, and goes. As soon as is left alone, she slowly looks down, and pulls back the bedsheets.. hen sees what lies beneath, she howls in horror. and arrive breathlessly in ANNE's room, to find.. is on the floor before the fire, her arms wrapped around as if she were hugging herself. On the floor beside her is a bloodstained bundle of sheets. looks up through the trailing locks of her hair.. lost it. Almost without pain. And so fast it was over in a moment. looks down at the bundle of sheets.. (heart cracks) Oh, Anne.. hugs tightly. All animosity now gone.. ou have to get rid of it. Bury it. Get rid of it somehow. No one must know. rushes to a cupboard, and pulls out a cape. He wraps it around Then he pours wine into a glass. wraps in a blanket to warm her. And begins making the bed with fresh linen.. is composed. Staring into the fire. and sit on either side of her. It's not the first. Miscarriage. MARY's heart cracks. Takes ANNE's hand. They will take it as proof that cannot bear children. That am cursed by God. And should be dispensed with. Why? There's still time. You could sleep with the King, and fall pregnant again. No one would know.. he King would never lie with me now, and risk damaging the `child' he believes I'm carrying.. a beat) Besides, he is barely capable anymore. And couldn't go through that again. stares at and No, if am to survive..I have to take matters into my own hands. and exchange blank looks.. don't understand. need a baby, Mary. rolling eyes) Must spell it out? You mean lying with another man? Of course. But that would be treason. esides, where would you find someone you could trust? Obviously, it would have to be someone close. Very close.. stares meaningfully at her What..? horrified) No..! Stop it, Anne! It's madness.. Don't you see? This affects all of us. If go down, so do all of you. The only way to save ourselves..is to do this.. (a beat) And pray it's a boy. covers her mouth in horror, gets to her feet.. can't listen to this.. (feeling nauseous) ...this is monstrous.. Mary, sit down.. No, Anne! understand you have had a shock tonight. terrible shock. But there is no need for this.. reaches the door, turns to Come, George.. gets to his feet.. George is staying. He understands this involves the whole family.. No. Come, George.. George, is freezes.. (her heart cracking) pray for you both. turns...then goes. Mary! Come back! leaves the room. Tears stream down her cheeks. She runs down the corridor, rushing towards her children.. But as goes, we figure sits in the shadows by ANNE's door. Someone who has heard everything that has been said.. t's Who turns, holding her head, covering her ears, unable to listen to any more.. runs through the corridors in an agitated state. rushes into her room. She goes to the beds where her are sleeping. gently shakes them awake.. Come on, darling wake up. Where are we going? Away from here. Far, far away. and stare at one another. pours a mug full of mulled wine.. takes the first step, and starts unbuttoning her brother's shirt. quickly knocks back the glass of mulled wine.. ...then gasps as puts her hands into his trousers. Their eyes meet for an intense moment.. and her ride through the night. and are making love. Silent tears are streaming down GEORGE's cheeks Visibly traumatised. tenderly wipes them away. and her continue to ride through the night. They gallop, silhouettes against the moon. The faster and further they get away from court, the better. Afterwards: and lie in silence. strokes her baby brother's hair. rocks to and fro. Staring at the fire.. gets to her feet. Numb with shock. She stares ahead. Momentarily loses her footing. Then disappears into the darkness. arrives in a market village. She asks directions. Then kicks her horse. Rides on. simple farmhouse, nestling in a valley. stands in front of the door, protectively holding her children. flicker of panic passes behind her eyes. What is she She knocks. Who lives here, Mother? Someone. (clears throat) friend. o answer. knocks again. Still no answer. hesitates, then tries the door. It opens.. enters, calls out, `Hello?'. No answer. Inside: it's warm, inviting, idyllic. The go to the kitchen table. Instantly feeling at home. calls out.. William? o answer. Mama, I'm hungry. Me, too. stares. What should she do? The eat hungrily. clock ticks on the wall. puts to sleep in a bed. is already fast asleep in another bed. draws the curtains. hen closes the door. walks along a corridor. She looks in the bedroom. MEN's clothes in the wardrobe. No sign anywhere of a woman's presence. turns, then catches sight of herself in a mirror. Her hair is bedraggled. Her clothes are filthy. pours hot water into a bath. The room is thick with steam. She begins unbuttoning her dress. and several return from working in the fields. Talking and laughing. They reach a crossroads, go their separate ways. rides on for a while.. ..then stops when he sees a horse outside his house. dismounts his horse. quizzical look. Then he walks towards the front door. enters his house to see empty bowls of food on the table. HILDREN's boots by the door. And a WOMAN's riding cape. rom upstairs, the sound of splashing. expression changes. He slowly goes up the stairs. he sound of splashing gets louder. WOMAN's voice. Humming. pushes open the door. is in the bath. Washing herself. looks up. STAFFORD's eyes. MARY's eyes. I'm sorry. a beat) just didn't know where else to go. walks in. gets up... No modesty. No shame. No effort to cover herself. sweeps her into his arms.. No words. No explanations. Time for that later. hey fall into a passionate embrace, and sink to the floor.. Time has passed. Winter has become spring. We're in an idyllic country church. and are being married by a Do you, Mary, take William as your lawful wedded husband? do. dance is in progress. play. Fifty or so is talking to a friend. In another corner: she notices a arrive. former from court. e talks to They talk gravely. STAFFORD's face is ashen.. excuses herself from her friend, crosses the room, goes to What is it? News from court. avoids MARY's eyes.. hat? It's Anne. Tell me.. (fearing the worst) She miscarried the child? is walking alone. Her follow at a distance. Presently she lets out a cry. Her body doubles up in pain. Her rush towards her. Back at the dance. continues.. They say it was deformed...monstrous. She is charged with incest and of summoning the devil. Your brother, too. He has already been sentenced. Anne is in the Tower, awaiting trial. in a prison cell at the Tower. Frightened. Vulnerable. face: horrified. must go. turns to walk out. blocks her path.. And do what? George is doomed. For Anne it's only a matter of time. can petition the King.. ou think he will listen? It's his own neck he's saving by getting rid of them, can't you see? stares.. Fine, go. But if you do, you might as well kiss your children goodbye. You are Anne's sister. That alone makes you her accomplice and co-conspirator. have no choice. Anne and George are my family. cannot desert them. walks towards the door.. And what of your new family? Your Henry and Catherine have you. Anne and George have no one. (a beat) I'm sorry.. The sound of galloping hooves. rides hard, towards London.. is led into a great courtroom lit by flickering torches, and filled with fifty or sixty of the country's most powerful walks to the centre of the room, surveying her `jurors', noting that they have remained seated.. It is a sad day for England when the nobles do not rise for their Queen. And even sadder when that same Queen is charged with adultery and incest. Charged is different to convicted, Uncle. Or is it not? In this court? Deathly silence. The clearing of throats. Then with much chair scraping, the reluctantly get to their feet.. Master Cromwell, read out the indictment.. gets to his feet.. The charge is that in the twenty-eighth year of the reign of our Sovereign Henry, King of England, his wife, the Queen, being seduced by the Devil, did knowingly commit adultery, high treason and offences against God. How do you plead? Not guilty, my Lord. thunders across bridges, through villages. Urging on her horse. No thought of rest. faces the as she makes her case.. My noble Lords..the love have for my brother is the love any sister would have for someone with whom she has grown up in the same house, nursed when sick, played games as children, shared life's celebrations. As delivers this speech, our slowly pulls back, back, towards the door.. That is the love have for him. Not what you suggest. Our pulls out through the door... ..and into a corridor beyond, where we find hunched in shadows, eavesdropping, his face cast in shadows.. Judge me, my Lords, as you see fit. But never forget that your verdicts will be judged again by God, in the greatest court of all.. HENRY's face is a study of guilt. His knuckles whiten, his nails dig into his hands.. My Lords, the time has come to cast your vote. gallops through shallow streams, spraying water.. watches on as each takes it in turn to get to his feet, and deliver his verdict. First then the then The verdicts rain down on `Guilty, guilty, guilty', going round the courtroom, until they reach the of meets the eyes of her (unflinching) Guilty. stares at Not a hint of compassion.. In which case, the burden falls on me to pass sentence. terrified is led to the scaffold. He is watched by reaches the outskirts of London. Gallops through villages.. BOLEYN's eyes are covered with a cloth. He puts his head on the block. says last rites as GEORGE's arms are held back. Terrified, his lips mouth prayers..begging forgiveness. The axe falls. huge goes up. this has been watched by arrives in time to hear the from the crowds. She dismounts her horse, exhausted from the journey, he walks against a tide of leaving. Drunk. Laughing. Talking among themselves. MARY's expression changes. Suddenly, a shiver goes down her spine. feels sick. Fearing the worst, she goes up to a in the ho was it? walks through corridors arm in arm with followed closely by the and the ever-surviving of turns a corner, then stops in his tracks when he sees...MARY waiting outside his Privy Chamber, restrained by Seeing the King, she curtseys deeply.. Mary..? The draw their swords, but the KING's runs excitedly towards her. gestures for the to sheath their swords.. Leave us. The leave. The of hesitates.. of you! shoots a look, then goes. turns and leads her into.. His private room. His sanctuary. Where he took her before. The room to which only seems to have had access.. Your Majesty.. (falling into a deep curtsey as closes the door ensuring their privacy) understand my family has offended you. But having taken my brother today, beg you to spare my sister. Oh, Mary... realise you must replace Anne as Queen. (a beat) But must she die, too? She has been tried and found guilty. You could send her away. am bound by the law. You could send her to a nunnery. No one would know. Anne? To a nunnery? almost manages a smile. There is precedent, my Lord. Louis of France did it, too. When his wife could not conceive. The French Queen was a blameless woman. Your sister a witch. understand Anne has offended you. ask only that if there is any regret you might..feel yourself. What? For your part in the matter.. treads delicately. Realising the very suggestion is treason. ..does not unduly colour your thinking. Killing Anne will not make it go away. (a beat) It would only make it worse. stares at How could have made that mistake? Suddenly his eyes are full of regret. And sadness. (cont'd) Choosing her over you? thinks. long silence. o. will reflect on the matter. falls on one knee. Kisses his swollen, bejewelled hand in gratitude. stares, watching her as she goes. team of erect gallows and scaffolding. Hammers knock nails. sickening metronome of death. OTack', `tack', `tack'. n the hill: a blood-stained chopping block is put into place. The doors to ANNE's cell open. looks up. In the doorway is stares at ANNE's appearance is shocking. She looks ten years older. Haggard and lined by stress. puts on a brave face, stares back at Oh, Anne.. The two sisters walk towards one another, and embrace. Tight. Tears run onto each other's shoulders.. How has it come to this? Ssshhhhh. gives a nod. raise a barrier, and allow the that have been waiting to rush forward. he swarm over the grassy hill...putting down coats...reserving seats..anxious to secure the best views. looks out through a narrow window. Her intense, fearful eyes flit and dart.. They're letting the crowds in. It's all right. You will be spared. The King as good as gave me his word. The King saw you? Yes. manages a rueful smile.. We all made a mess of that, didn't we? We all underestimated little Mary. looks at don't think he ever stopped loving you. That's not true. It is. He never loved me in the same way. And deep down you know it. averts her eyes.. You should have been Queen. You even gave him a son. But instead all this has happened because.. (a beat) Because couldn't bear to be the Other Boleyn Girl. shrugs.. And now look? The sound of approaching footsteps. looks at suddenly frightened.. Hold me.. The two fall into an emotional embrace as the JAILOR's keys turn in the lock.. You'll look after Elizabeth? It will be all right. Trust me. he couldn't ask for a better moth... (breaks down, composes herself) hugs tight..`Sssshhh'. e will spare you. am sure of it. takes a deep breath. Tries to look serene.. roar of the crowd. wearing a shawl of white ermine, is violently jostled and spat at as she's marched across Tower Hill to the scaffold. She shoots an anxious look across the crowds.. shoots a signal, "Don't worry." climbs the steps, and faces the Finally the jeers subside.. come here to die...a loyal subject.. More spit, jeers and abuse. stands on tiptoe, cranes her neck. Anxiously scans the for the that will free Come on.. do not blame the King. Never was there a more just or goodly Lord.. Presently, sees two pushing through the towards her. Her heart leaps.. beg God's forgiveness and his mercy.. looks up to see the reaching and handing her a letter. smiles in relief. opens the letter and reads.. "Madam..." the former assistant to who has now replaced him, sits at his desk, writing the letter.. ..the King has spared you because of his respect and affection for you and because you are the mother of his son." continues to read the letter, as is forced to kneel by the "But you risked your life coming to court and you are advised you not to do so again. You will not be shown the same clemency a second time. Your sister Anne was tried and found guilty, her crimes were high treason and she deserves to die. Cromwell." who is reading, looks up in horror.. No! looks up. She sees the look on MARY's face. MARY's eyes. ANNE's eyes. the masked swings his sword. is beheaded. almost chokes.. The falls eerily silent. stunned calm descends on Tower Green. Nothing but the sound of the wind. sways, then falls backwards, having lost consciousness. She falls, falls..but is caught by a strong pair of arms.. who has followed her to London. Suddenly the burst into life. great, bloodthirsty echoes around Tower Green as ANNE's head is lifted aloft.. carries in his arms. They walk against the flow, of teaming and newly-arriving coming to watch the spectacle.. sits by a window. Staring out at the fields beyond. Ashen-faced. Broken. We're moving through a cornfield. At speed. The sound of children's laughter. Excited shrieking. s in the opening scene: three a and two run through the fields, playing. Touchingly, they are barely taller than the corn, heads skimming along the sheaves.. the children are being watched from a distance by and standing outside Hever Castle. smiles, shielding her eyes from the sun.. #4: "MARY's We on and ANNE's unmistakable red-headed daughter Other Boleyn Girl, The : Peter Morgan Philippa Gregory : Dram