<b><!-- </b> <b>/* </b>Break-out-of-frames script By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com) Over 400+ free scripts here! Above notice stay entact for use <b>*/ </b> if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b>Star Trek - The Motion Picture Star Trek: The Motion Picture Screenplay by: Story by: July 19, 1978 An ever expanding infinity of light and color as deep space, for one pinpoint of light: a as we a normal white star brightening, flaring unbelievable intensity: supernova. The just a moment, then on, through space, the jeweled beauty of other star systems, sparkling nebulae, swirling hydrogen clouds. then In the far distance, slowly growing in size as it resembles, vaguely at this distance, an Aurora Borealis: flaring colors from the fringes, beautiful yet ominous. It is so large, this Cloud, it can envelope an entire solar system. the Cloud, and then suddenly, crossing our a: In a graceful, turning arc toward the mysterious this Klingon, then a second Klingon cruiser, also turning toward the Cloud, which continues to grow in size as the Klingons approach at warp speed, on the lead ship, until the vessel's detail can be clearly lights, weaponry, power systems, identification emblazoned on the nacelles and saucer in Klingon language (and symbols). Clearly alien, an signaling "battle stations." Orders issued in the and peering at an unusual bridge viewer at the huge area of directly ahead. In (Give me tactical.) goes suddenly to a showing the to be an with two complete- ing their turn on a direct course toward it. The Patrol is clearly now on the right of the bottom of the tiny ships closing on the steadily growing All eyes on the viewer that shows the ships sweeping on the Mysterious cloud. (In Klingonese) Visual. The makes the switch. growing ever larger, its flaring colors menacing, mysterious, strangely beckoning. The crew stands by for battle. (In Klingonese) Tactical again. Stand by on torpedoes. sliding open, the glowing "Hell Fire" of the Photon Launch tubes, slowly revealed. They are tiny, insect-like shapes moving still to the Luminescent Cloud, so large now that it begins to dominate all space behind. The growing nearness and enormous size of the Cloud also reflected on the Tactical Grid, somehow more awesome by this schematic view. The Captain gestures the order to The of the torpedoes spurt from the tubes. deadly pattern racing away from the Klingon and toward the Luminescent glow in the distance. Three torpedoes are heading directly toward the Cloud. Suddenly they glow briefly and disappear long before they reach their intended target. incredulous that their torpedoes have disappeared without a trace. as the second and third ships launch torpedoes toward the color-flaring surface of the cloud. This time we have an outside, real of the torpedoes glowing brightly and then disappearing with no effect. The Klingon crew grim, desperate, watching a from within the (quickly; Klingonese) Full force fields; evasive maneuvers. Out of the hurtles a It bears down on the Klingon Patrol, now in an evasive maneuver. Then the hits the third cruiser in a writhing flare of energy which totally engulfs the vessel. The other two ships veer off, warping around again into attack position. The has begun to implode in on itself, the matter-energy of its existence drained by the that desperately defending themselves, But now a has emerged from the cloud and hits the second vessel, it. The glances off the surviving Cruiser as the ship retreats in a wide, evasive turn, from stern tubes. The bridge shattered; Klingon bodies. The mortally- wounded Captain is transmitting urgently: (In Klingonese) ... severely damaged. Returning fire... Serenity here. barren, rocky small plantoid softly lit by the myriad stars. This is a small Starfleet outpost, antennae sprouting everywhere. Tiny figures servicing one antenna illustrate the size of the installation. the battle scene, and the in his last stand against the Object; his is weary, almost mechanical. On the adjacent viewer, an English printout of the Klingon's words chatters along the bottom of the picture: (In Klingonese) Imperial Klingon Cruiser Amar... severely damaged by unfamiliar weaponry... intruder unidentified.. At the viewers are a and a young, alert, enters hur- riedly, scans he console. Our sensor drone is intercepting this on Quad ... believe luminescent cloud to be enormous power field surrounding alien vessel... size and description unknown.. our sensor scans unable to penetrate. Imperial Klingon Cruiser Amar... continuing to attack. That's within Klingon boundaries. Who are they fighting? Unknown, sir. violent inside the Klingon bridge -- Klingon Captain's body is thrown violently against the bulkhead. have an exterior visual! showing of the Klingon vessel: a final, frightening strikes it -- then the same awesome The Starfleet station onlookers react to the utter annihilation of the huge cruiser. And now, past where the cruiser just disappeared -- the mysterious approaching in distance. Technician hits a switch, magnifying the strange We've plotted a course on that cloud, Commander: it will pass into Federation Space fairly close to us. Heading? as its focal point shifts to the huge elliptically- shaped racing across the sky. in a low, unresolved that remains in the background through the remainder of this scene, and the beginning of the next one. Sir, it's on a precise heading for Earth. Ominously now the increases in size, and begins to fill the viewer. and then: with the masses of thick, steamy vaporous clouds, swirling about, rising boilingly up from some unseen, underground source. The through clouds. And then... the Vulcan landscape. Harsh, strange angular peaks and rock formations -- the barren, legend- ary mountain home of Vulcan Masters. Spock's lean features instantly recognizable despite unkempt, longer hair and the fatigue born of a long, harsh discipline he has undergone. His robes, tattered and dust covered, are that of a Vulcan Aspirant in study with the Masters. Under the V'ger we a in ritual tones: Spock, son of Sarek of Vulcan... and of Amanda of Earth... diligently you have labored for purification of mind... In b.g., gigantic ancient Vulcan statues and ruins. In f.g., the stone platform on which Spock stands facing a semi-circle of three similar platforms. On them in regal robes are three The Master in the center is a female, the other two Masters are male. The elderly female is holding a cord and ancient pendant as if ready to place it around Spock's neck at an appropriate moment. Spock is staring up as V'ger fades. (chidingly) Spock . . . ! Spock turns, giving a small contrite nod -- the ritual continues. Here are these sands, our fore- bearers cast out their animal passions. Here our race was saved by the first attainment of Kolinahr. Kolinahr: the final shedding of all emotion. You have labored long, Spock. Now receive from us this symbol of total logic. Spock starts to kneel... the Female Master moves in, intending to put the ancient pendant around his neck. But Spock now hesitates -- he's troubled as though uncertain he deserves this symbol and waves the pendant away. Then, a faint reprise of the V'ger now causes the Female Master to look skyward. She turns from this back to Spock as she exchanges a look with the Male Masters. (gestures Spock forward) Come, give me your thoughts. She kneels with Spock -- lays her hands on his temples in Vulcan mind-meld position. (continuing) Our minds, Spock... One and together.... Their eyes close -- their minds meld -- then her head jerks slightly, her features change as her mind feels Spock's reactions to the V'ger consciousness. long moment, then she opens her eyes, gets to her feet and looks down on the still kneeling Spock. Then, she casts aside the pendant she carries -- it falls into the dust. (continuing; sadly) This consciousness which calls -- it stirs your human half, Spock? You have not achieved Kolinahr -- Your human emotions are not fully extinguished. (turns to the other Masters) He will not achieve his goal with us. His answer lies elsewhere. The three Masters leave -- Spock watches them go, his disappointment evident even in his stoic features. on his face as we again a frag- ment of V'ger -- Spock again raises his head and peers up into the heavens. on his face a moment, then... gleaming silver in the sun as it streaks and hurtles From this vantage, we can all of twenty-third century San Francisco stretched out before us. In the b.g., the familiar forms of the carefully preserved Golden Gate Bridge and Transamerica Pyramid Building serve as our only reminders that this is, indeed, San Francisco. The (an anti-gravitational train flying several feet above the ground) sharply, settles to the ground with a whisper. The doors opening, and various (civilians and Starfleet personnel) leaving the tram, striding onto the platform, continuing on their respective ways. Among the departing throng: in Admiral's uniform, grim, determined, moving through the throng. Now and then Starfleet officers nod re- spectfully; responds with detached formality; his mind is clearly set on something he is resolved to ac- complish here in headquarters -- whatever the cost. to: as Kirk strides into the graceful Starfleet building. Many are about, civilians and uniformed person- nel; most of them with some air of urgency. interspersed among them, Vulcans, blue-skinned Andorians, high-domed Vegans, ect.) Kirk continues on when suddenly he reacts, annoyed as he sees: a Vulcan, Lt Commander; short, white-haired, grizzled, hurrying along. Kirk calls to him: Commander Sonak... ! turns with Vulcan imperturbability to face Kirk who steps toward him (continuing) You've received your appointment as Enterprise Science Officer? (nods) Based, am told, on your recommendation, Admiral. Thank you. Why aren't you on board? Captain Decker requested complete final Science briefing here before... (interrupting) Here at Starfleet...? The Enterprise is in final preparation to leave dock... Which will require twenty more hours at minimum, Admiral... Twelve! I'm on my way to a meeting with Admiral Nogura which will not last more than three minutes. Report to me on the Enterprise in one hour. To you, sir? intend to be there following that meeting. Report to me. One hour! And Kirk turns, strides purposefully away. Sonak gazes after him, one eyebrow raised quizzically. In f.g., Orbital drydock offices, rotating slowly but perceptibly against blue-black of space. Small figures in spacesuits working on construction, with work belts. Beyond and below... Earth. In the far distance we can barely make out an orbital drydock. The cluster is a fully-equipped dockyard engineering center and computer drafting office. an outer "Travel Pod." an installation which also includes a double position transporter, in which we the With the He's with a Technician, busy with a piece of complex circuitry. Then he turns, sees that it is Kirk in here. As Kirk materializes, steps off the transporter plat- form, Scott moves quickly to him. The starship Engineering Officer clearly surprised to see Kirk here. Kirk has the same look of grim de- termination we just saw in the headquarters building. Admiral, I've been hoping to see you. Maybe you can get through to those thick heads in Starfleet that... Why aren't the Enterprise transporters in operation, Mister Scott? We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral... See that it is. (moving toward pod) Take me over, please. Scott is now eying Kirk just a little warily as he fol- lows him into the pod. Kirk's determined expression suggests that some chips are going to fly and Scott does not want to become one of them. (carefully) Admiral, the Enterprise has just finished eighteen months redesign- ing and refitting. She needs testing, a shakedown... Mr. Scott, there's an alien object with unbelievable destructive power less than three days away from this planet... Kirk hits a button on the travel pod panel -- the air- lock doors closed behind them. Then, stepping im- mediately to the front observation window: (continuing) ... the only Starship in interception range is the Enterprise! Ready, or not, she launches in twelve hours! Scott throws Kirk an appalled look but is now occupied in sealing the Outer Pod door and manipulating drive controls. front of the Pod and arms of the office complex as Pod disconnects and starts to move. front of the pod and arms of the office complex as Pod disconnects and starts moving. as it moves way from the office complex. We can the jet flames of its tiny thrusters as it cir- cles around, heads off (toward the distant Orbital dry dock). Scott nervously eying Kirk, and finally deciding to make one more effort: The crew hasn't had near enough transition time with all the new equipment. And the engines, Admiral: they've yet to be even tested at warp power. Add to that, an untried Captain... (hint of smile) Two and a half years as Chief of Starfleet Operations may have made me a little stale, Mr. Scott -- but wouldn't exactly consider myself 'untried.' It takes Scott a moment to comprehend, and Kirk smiles now, nods: (continuing) They gave her back to me, Scotty. Scott peers at him, genuinely surprised -- and pleased. Then: "Gave' her back, sir...? doubt it was that easy... (returns smile) But any man who could manage such a feat, wouldna dare disappoint. She'll launch on time, sir... (with confidence) And she'll be ready. And he clasps Kirk's elbow affectionately, then gestures Kirk to look out the pod window. as he looks out: the blue-black of orbital space. Scott is well aware of what the Enterprise means to Kirk. As Scott maneuvers the pod to provide the best perspective, Kirk peers through the observation window, craning his head, hungry for his first glimpse of the starship. Scott is watching him, immensely pleased. as we the drydock and more of its detail, and a hint of what is inside. Kirk and Scott the corner of the drydock becomes larger -- we begin more of it. And then the merest glimpse of what is inside the drydock: The Enterprise slips as he watches, his face reflecting all of it: the awe, the wonder, the romance, the obsession. The one comp- lete love of his life. And with that love regained, he is becoming more fully alive again. Kirk looks at Scott; for a moment both hold each other's eye. Scott knows precisely how Kirk feels. Both turn to the window again. Now the -- the awesome, symmetrical bulk of the starship comes fully And it dominates Kirk's -- and our emotions. The great ship dwarfs everything. The drydock becomes a fragile filigree framing the ship's great curved bulk. The tiny pod continues to move along it. Small automated welding devices move along the gird- ers, working with brief, bright orange-white flares. In other areas of metal lace structure, supplies and equipment are being loaded onto the ship. The pod continues moving (Scott is giving Kirk time to see all), watched carefully by the on the drydock. Now the pod moves toward mating position. It closes in, secures itself to the outer airlock. Scott completing the mating procedure, Kirk turning from the observation window. Outside, the metallic.. of the pod locking onto the airlock. Now the of the latch doors securing, the of security bolts. It's all been a rare and delicious moment for Kirk, and his face shows it. the we "Pod secured. Pressure equalized." Scott moves the control to open the hatch. confusion of organized work and The cargo deck bustles with activity; supplies and equipment being stored and installed. Kirk and Scott are met by a nervous, perspiring Permission to come aboard, sir...? Granted, sir. Welcome aboard, Admiral... Commander Scott, you're needed in Engineering immediately. (to Kirk) Sir, you'll excuse me...? Kirk gestures him to leave, and Scott hurries away. Kirk stands a moment, gazing down at the cargo deck. The crew maneuvering antigravity devices which move heavy containers -- scrambles of activity at storage holds and maintenance lockers. Kirk is drinking it all in. He's home. (nervous) Sir, if you'll follow me, I'll... think can find my way, Ensign. And Kirk moves off, leaving the Ensign gazing at him, relieved. Kirk and the doors snap open. as Kirk enters. The doors close. Kirk waits a beat, savoring this moment too. Then, firmly to the control panel: Bridge! The turbo-elevator as it begins hur- tling up. On the wall back of Kirk we an electronic diagram of the Enterprise tracking the elevator's speedy trip to the Bridge. confusion of activity and Pieces o equip- ment in a state of disarray: consoles open, fiber optic tubes unconnected, viewing screens dismantled. It's a frantic, desperate scene -- a ship and crew to- tally unprepared. In the midst of this: ensign is assisting (Lt. Comdr. stripes)deftly working her communications station, "... Hailing frequency four, check. Hailing frequency five, will someone please check me?" At the helm, sweat-soaked (Lt. Comdr stripes) has a service plate open, is peering inside to make delicate adjust- ments, "... Helm, now give me a reading on four point zero zero six of full." And at the Weapons Control, (Full Lt.)argues with who insist photon torpedoes read "ready" while Chekov argues the computer is not relaying that information. snapping open -- and there is Kirk. For the moment no one notices him, and he stands watching, remembering. And then he moves forward toward the command center. as she is the first to see him. She reacts,pleased. Captain... Starfleet just signaled your transfer-of- command orders! as everyone else is suddenly aware of Kirk. All work stops, with various greetings from the old crew: "Admiral Kirk..." "It's the Captain...!" etc., etc. But most sit or stand, simple gaping at Kirk, all quite awed. The old hands, Uhura, Sulu, and Chekov start converging on Kirk. But he gestures them back, speaking crisply. appreciate the welcome; wish the circumstances were less critical. (to Uhura) Epsilon Nine is monitoring the intruder; keep a channel open to them. (glances around) Where is Captain Decker? He's in Engineering, sir... (uncomfortable, indicates Captain's chair) He doesn't know. Kirk reacts with some exasperation, starts away, addresses Chekov: Mr Chekov, assemble the crew on the Rec Deck at 0400 hours. want to show them what we're facing. And Kirk moves to the elevator, enters, is gone. The moment the elevator doors snap closed: wouldn't have wanted to have been standing in his way. He wanted her back; he got her! (perturbed) And Captain Decker? He's been with the ship every minute of her refitting... (brittle) Ensign -- our chances of coming back from this mission in one piece may have just doubled...! The entire complex a beehive of pre-departure activity. (at least a third of them female) coming and going, the platform-elevators (small, one- man lifts to various levels) busy. gentle but con- stant and flows from the engine core, to indi- cate a pre-idling mode. There will be continual conversation among the Technicians. Now the Engine Room door opens and Kirk steps into the area. He stands a moment observing the activity. a grizzled pushes a huge condenser on an anti-grav device past irk with a respectful "watch it, sir" admonishment. Kirk moves on to: at the middle of the power shaft. Very here, and a continual of calling off equipment checks. And grouped around a section of burnt-out circuitry are Captain's stripes, handsome, in his early 30's; Scott, and two Technicians. Decker and Scott are working feverishly uncoupling the device, probing its innards. Decker has discovered the problem, removed several transistor-type parts, taps them with a pencil-sized sonic analyzer. (quietly elated) thought so! See... the trans- porter sensor was not activated... (impressed) Aye, you were dead right about that... (to Technician) Clearly, put a back-up sensor into the unit. as the Technician prepares to install the device, Scott glances up to see Kirk. He looks from Decker to Kirk in acute embarrassment (so that we should realize Scott hasn't mentioned Kirk's taking over to Decker). Decker now notices Kirk, reacts pleased. Admiral Kirk... (shakes Kirk's hand) We're getting a top brass send off...? (self assured grin) She'll launch on schedule if we have to tow her out with our bare hands. Right, Scotty? (lamely) Aye, sir, that we will... (to Decker) Will, let's go over here and talk. He indicates corner. Decker glances bemusedly at Kirk, then turns to Scott: Let me now when the back-up is in place. as Scott a glum "Aye, sir," and watches them walk across the Chamber. just a little quieter here, with Kirk and Decker arriv- ing, and Decker saying blithely: All due respect, sir, hope this isn't a Starfleet pep talk; I'm just too busy. Kirk eyes Decker -- then decides the best way to say it is plainly, directly. I'm taking over the Center seat. I'm sorry, Will. You are what...? I'm replacing you as Captain of the Enterprise. Decker seems shocked into silence; he can only peer at Kirk who reaches tentatively as though to clasp a paternal hand on Decker's shoulder, then withdraws it and continues quickly. (continuing) You'll stay aboard as Executive Officer... a temporary grade reduction to Commander. (finding his voice) -- You, personally, are assuming command? Yes. May ask Why? (nods) My experience -- five years out there dealing with unknowns like this -- my familiarity with the Enterprise, this crew... Admiral, this is an almost totally new enterprise. You don't know her a tenth as well as do. Scott, working on the relay, but continually glancing at Kirk and Decker with worried concern, as Kirk replies: That's why you're staying aboard. I'm sorry, Will. No, Admiral. don't think you are; not one damned bit. remember when you recommended me for this command. You told me how envious you were, and if only you could find a way to get a starship command again. Well, sir, it looks like you found a way. Kirk is silent a moment, peering levelly at Decker, who returns the gaze with equal intensity. Then: Report to the bridge, Commander. Immediately. Decker Kirk waits, collecting his composure as he watches him go. Then Kirk turns to glare at Scott. Interrupted by a flare as something shorts out at the mechanism where Scott and Decker had been working. Technician (Clearly) reacts, hits an inter- com button fast: Transporter room, come in! Urgent! (to Scott) Redline on the transporters, Mister Scott! Scott whirls to a console fast, speaks urgently! Transporter room, do not engage! Do not.... (reacting to the reading; interruption) Too late; they're beaming now! Kirk is exiting on a run, followed by Scott. An unusually defective looking in progress, alternately flashing and glowing -- even the Transporter seems wrong, as if struggling to overcome some problem. At the console, and are reacting in surprised, near-horror as they attempt vainly to save the situation. (into intercom) Starfleet, override us! Yank them back! Suddenly, from Rand's console,a -- a from the circuitry. And on the con- sole a red-warning light now begins flashing. Unable to retrieve their pattern, Enterprise....! Rand reacts in real horror now as human forms begin to then then as she frantically works con- trols. Kirk fast, steps to the console to assist Rand; Scott has also come in and moves to the console, brushes aside the Asst. Chief, and begins manipulating the additional controls himself. We're losing the pattern...! (into intercom) Starfleet, boost your matter gain; we need more signal! Oh, no! They're forming! with the human forms We one form as the Vulcan, Sonak -- the other a human They we form from the Vulcan -- the Woman's Then, all at once, the half-materialized bodies are gone; the transporter chamber is empty. Oh, my God...! gazing, horrified, at the empty chamber. (into intercom) Starfleet, do you have them? mutter of utter, vacant silence -- and Kirk and Scott look at each other again, their pained faces presaging the answer they already know: (shaken) Enterprise... what we got back didn't live long. Fortunately. Another moment of stunned silence, and then Kirk hits the transmission button -- fighting to control his voice as: Starfleet... Kirk. Please... express my condolences to their families. Commander Sonak's can be reached through the Vulcan Embassy. (see Rand's stricken expression) There was nothing you could have done, Rand. It wasn't your fault. And before Rand can answer, Kirk leaves the room. as Kirk steps out, and the doors snap closed behind him. In the corridor the furor of the hurried depar- ture is, as everywhere, quite evident: move back and forth. But Kirk does not see them; his mind is tormented by the transporter accident -- was there something he should have done, could have done, to prevent it? Should he launch on schedule with the starship this unready? Has he done right in yielding to this terrible needs for starship command again, forcing Starfleet to give her to him? Would Decker's knowledge of the new design have prevented the acci- dent? Kirk reaches a corridor intersection, looks around, realizes he's lost track of where he is. passing stops in response to his puzzled expression. Turboshaft eight...? Back that way, sir. She's indicating back the direction from which Kirk came. He nods his thanks, turns and moves back down the corridor. hurrying down the corridor. The two face each other a silent moment, Decker studying Kirk curiously. We'll have to replace Commander Sonak. I'd still like a Vulcan there, if possible... None available, Captain. There's no one in fact, who's fully rated on this design. You are, Mister Decker. I'm afraid you'll have to double as Science Officer. And Kirk moves on, Decker stands gazing reflectively after him. (in the last part of the scene which showed the Klingon Captain speaking in Klingonese and an English print- out interpretation appearing at the screen bottom. The Klingon ship nearly totaled; one engine nacelle gone, smoke and flame spewing from the other, etc. And then that final etc.) But this time, we of incredulity from many throats (an audience), and various com- ments: "My God...!" don't believe it...!" "What could it be...?" Etc., etc. And then, immediately following this, on the viewer: (as in earlier Epsilon 9 viewer -- but with no music, only more exclamations from an audience.) The viewer goes blank. We that all this was being viewed by the (Aliens included) assembled on the Rec Deck. The Recreation Deck is one of the largest areas on the ship, several deck levels high, a part of one wall consisting of picture windows, through which can be seen sections of the drydock structure outside. On another wall is a large viewer, on which was just shown the Klingon transmission. Leading off and away from this deck area are what are obviously other specific recreation areas -- gymnasiums, food centers, game rooms, lounges, etc. as the Crew Members chat in low, grim tones -- Kirk (now with Captain's stripes) appears. As he comes into view, the two hundred or so crew below go silent. Kirk grimly indicates the now blank viewer: That's all we know about it; except that it's now 2.2 days from Earth. Enterprise is the only Federation starship that stands in its way. as the various faces: human, alien; most young, all intelligent, forthright -- anxious. Kirk has paused a moment, now continues. We assume there is a vessel of some type at the heart of the cloud. Our orders are to intercept, investigate; and take whatever action is necessary... and possible. (beat) ...We can only hope that the life form aboard that vessel reasons as we do. standing near an intercom, which just then has emitted a bosun's intercom signal. (from intercom) Bridge to Captain. Priority signal from Epsilon Nine -- Kirk leans over to the intercom, speaks into it: Put it on the viewer here...! as all eyes turn to the viewer which fades into a view of Commander Branch, in the Epsilon 9 monitor room. Branch is tense, reflecting extreme urgency. Near Branch, working intently at the console are the Female Lieutenant and a Technician. (from the viewer; checking console readings) Enterprise... the Cloud is definitely a powerfield of some kind... Measures... My God! Over 82 A.U.'s in diameter... Must be something incredible inside there generating it. (looks up from console) We're transmitting linguacode friendship messages on all frequencies. No response. have a null reading at the center of the 'cloud,' sir. Definitely something inside.. there but all scans are being reflected back. (studies readings) Receiving an odd pattern now.. (toward Branch) They seem to be reacting to our scans, sir. (inspecting another console) Some kind of energy surge... (looking up) Enterprise... they could be mistaking our scans as a hostile act... (reacts at readings) Deflectors, emergency full! Branch hits an alarm button; we The viewer clears again while Branch -- facing his viewer, continues urgently: (continuing) We are under attack...! (to Uhura) External view...! as the image of Branch is immediately replaced by an external view of the plantoid, and the (at about the same distance from which the Klingon cruisers were attacked). Then it the plantoid The viewer -- and immediately the entire Starfleet base becomes a maelstrom of shattered structure, flying debris. And then, all at once, there is nothing -- empty space, Epsilon 9 is gone. We only the stars; and the mysterious moving across the distant sky. The above is entirely and when it is finished, not a word is spoken.) Viewer off. as the viewer goes blank, all still facing the screen. Then Kirk turns to the room as if to comment. Then he stops -- nothing he can say will add at all to what they've just seen. Instead: Pre-launch countdown will commence in forty minutes. The scene they have just witnessed still vivid in their minds as they gaze somberly up toward Kirk who is exit- ing. The bridge crew follows him out. Not a word is said as the remainder of the crew waits another moment, then begins to disperse toward their duty stations too. Spectacular of the giant starship in the process of release. in half light, The dock welders are gone; the supply pods float away from the ship. Little tongues of blue flame spurt from the ship's maneuvering jets. as the large dock umbilical is released, floats free of its starship attachment. Dock departure is imminent. Kirk in the center seat, intently studying the Naviga- tion console in front of him (at the Navigator's station, which is unoccupied.) Other bridge personnel are busy with their pre-launch duties. Transporters Room and Chief Engineer Scott report trans- porter system fully repaired and now functioning normally, sir. Dock signals clear, Captain. Rely we are holding position awaiting final crew replacements. Captain, Transporter Personnel reports the Navigator... (consults console) ... Lieutenant Junior Grade Ilia (Eye-lee-ah) is already aboard, and en route to the bridge. as Decker (now wearing Commander stripes) reacts, almost startled, and Uhura continues: She's a Deltan. Uhura's tone and expression convey "Deltan" in a certain, special manner. (reprovingly) And there are no finer navigators in Starfleet, Commander. The last is interrupted by: as they snap open, and there emerges a breathtakingly beautiful young woman (uniformed as a Navigator Lieu- tenant) who strides purposefully onto the bridge. stunning figure, but hairless, entirely bald but or delicate eyebrows and eyelashes. Her bald head is not at all unattractive, in fact exudes an aura of sensual nudity. Indeed, her whole being exudes sensuality. (This is a racial characteristic, not a deliberate presence.) She approaches Kirk Throughout this sequence, Sulu eyes with unrestrained admiration.) Lieutenant Ilia reporting for duty, sir. (formally; rising) Welcome aboard, Lieutenant. as Ilia starts to speak, suddenly stops: she has just then noticed Decker, who has stepped from his station to face her. For an electronic moment their eyes meet, hold in unquestioned recognition. Hello, Ilia. (surprised) Decker....! Kirk has observed this with surprise and some concern (it presages possible complications). Decker turns to Kirk, slightly uncomfortable at this. was stationed on the Lieutenant's home planet some years ago... Ilia looks from Kirk back to Decker, puzzled at his sleeve stripes. (eyes his rank stripes) 'Commander' Decker? Our Exec and Science Officer... (bitingly) Captain Kirk has the utmost confidence in me. Kirk flashes a hard glance at Decker, then toward Ilia too. (pointedly) And in you, too, Lieutenant. My oath of celibacy is on record Captain. May assume my duties? While respectful, her tone of voice has been just as firm as Kirk's. By all means. receiving a message, now relaying it. Captain, Starfleet reports our last six crew members ready to beam up... (puzzled) ... but one of them is refusing to step into the transporter. Just as Kirk a moment before was tense, now suddenly he's relaxed again; he rises. (pleased) Oh? I'll see that he beams up...! And he hurries from the bridge, onto the elevator, is gone. moment of puzzled silence, then: Mr. Sulu, take Lieutenant Ilia in hand. (startled) Sir...? (then understands) Yes, of course... (to Ilia) Your pre-programming is already set in, Lieutenant. Sulu has almost tripped getting out of his chair. He starts offering Ilia his hand, then thinks better of it, withdraws it abruptly, immediately busies himself punching out equations on her console... "It's all on the computer. You'll have no problem..." Sulu is nervous, fluttery around this lovely creature -- now hits a wrong switch. Produces a which he fumbles to shut off. She smiles; speaks quietly, repeats: I'm sworn to celibacy, Mister Sulu. That makes me as safe as any human female. Sulu catches her eye but before he can reply, Decker has moved in beside Ilia. now the Captain meant no person- al insult. (eyes on console) would never take advantage of a sexually immature species. (looks at him) You can assure him that's true, can't you? Clearly, the remark carries special, personal significance. Kirk entering as Rand and her assistant electronically list the last of the five arrivals who are leaving the Transporter Chamber. Kirk calls through intercom to the last arrival, a young female Yeoman. Yeoman, what was the problem down there? (through intercom) He insisted we go first, sir. Said something about first seeing how it scrambled our molecules. Thank you, Yeoman (hits transmit control) Starfleet , this is Captain Kirk. The officer is to be beamed up immediately! moment, then again the and then the familiar And then you McCOY! He fully He looks himself over as if in pleased surprise he is still in one piece. McCoy from the Transporter Chamber to Kirk who is hav- ing a hard time containing his amusement and delight. Well, for a man who swore he'd never return to Starfleet... McCOY (flat, tight) What happened, Captain, sir, was that your revered Admiral Nogura invoked a little known -- and seldom used -- reserve activation clause... (snaps) ... in simpler language, Captain, sir, they drafted me! (straight-faced) They didn't...! Kirk has offered his hand, but McCoy is already flaring: McCOY This was your idea! It was your idea, wasn't it! Bones, there's a 'thing' out there -- McCOY -- Why is any object we don't understand called a 'thing'? (continues) -- headed this way. need you... McCOY Were you behind this? (nods) Bones, need you badly. Kirk extends his hand again; McCoy delays some moments -- then finally responds. And once done, it is the long hand clasp of two old friends reunited despite their differences. Now McCoy turns to Rand. McCOY Permission to come aboard, sir? (elated) Permission granted, sir! And McCoy moves toward the door, grumbling: McCOY hear Chapel's an now; need a top nurse, not a doctor who'll argue every diagnosis... And -- Even when he's in the corridor his grumbling trails after him. McCOY (continuing) ... they've probably redesigned sickbay, too. Engineers love to change things. as he gazes fondly after the grumbling McCoy, and now turns to the intercom, flips it on: All decks, this is the Captain. Prepare or immediate departure. Bulkheads closing, feed lines disengaging, main into life, crew personnel hurrying to launch stations. of cargo deck, down to Engineering Section slamming shut. Drydock area clearing, work lights go out, warning lights go on. All flight positions manned, ready. Dock control reports ready, sir. Helm ready, sir. Orbital departure on plot, sir. Yard command signaling clear, sir. Maneuvering thrusters, Mister Sulu. Maneuvering thrusters, sir. Hold station. (working controls) Thrusters at station-keeping, sir. The starship within the drydock, but now the maneuver- ing -- thrusters spurt pinpoints of The drydock is ready for the starship's departure -- not a single pod or shuttlecraft in sight. The starship looms majestically within the lacework girders. as Kirk hesitates just an instant, seems to hold his breath. Then: Thrusters ahead, Mister Sulu. Take us out. The maneuvering -- thrusters spurt more The Enterprise begins moving, as it moves majestically from the drydock. emphasizing fine detail reality of both drydock and starship as saucer section emerges. Tiny space- suited human figures watch the departing ship. until completely clear of the orbital dock. Here in Engineering Section, the to a glow from the central unit indicates anti-matter intermix underway. The Engineering Section shudders as the great engines draw more and more power. Intermix set, Bridge, impulse power at your discretion. as he hesitates just an instant. This is the moment he's awaited, and to him it is equally as sensuous and gratifying as making love -- which, perhaps, he is -- to his mistress: The Enterprise. (after a moment) Impulse power, Mr Sulu. Ahead Warp point-five. The maneuvering jets turn off, the impulse drive glows. The Enterprise begins moving perceptibly faster -- behind her, the drydock diminishing rapidly in size. Departure angle on viewer. Departure angle. We viewer to a departing view of lovely bluish, cloud-laced image of Earth as it grows smaller, smaller, dwindling quickly as the starship gathers speed. Viewer ahead. And viewer to show the star patterned space ahead. with its colorful rings and multiple moons a major portion of the Captain's Log, stardate 7412.6. 2.7 hours from launch... All hands tense with the excitement of the journey, on the viewer Saturn -- and its rings -- are falling away this: (concerned) ... in order to intercept the Intruder at the earliest possible time, we must now risk engaging Warp drive while still within the solar system... End of log. punching in equations on his console, reaching a reading: Captain, assuming we have full Warp capability, accelerating to Warp Seven on leaving solar system will bring us to with the Intruder in twenty point one hours. Checking her console. Science Officer's computations confirmed, sir. And Decker and Ilia glance at each other -- and again, you know there is something more than casual in this. as they open, and McCoy appears, walks over to Kirk who swings his chair around to face him. McCoy is his usual dour self. Well, Bones, do the new medical facilities meet with your approval? McCOY They do not. It's like working in a damned computer center. (turning to Decker) Programming ready? Program set for standard Warp entry, Captain... Kirk starts to swing his chair to normal position -- Decker calls: (continuing) ... but still recommend further simulation study. Mister Decker; every minute brings that object nearer Earth! (using intercom) Engineering! Stand by for Warp Drive. McCoy is watching Kirk, a bit surprised at his abrupt- ness to Decker. (worried) Captain, we need further Warp simulation on the flow sensors... Engineer, we need Warp speed now! McCOY (very gently) You're pushing Jim. Your people know their jobs. Kirk flashes McCoy a glance of annoyance -- then back to using intercom: The main intermix chambers with power; the of the main engines coming to life. The Scott in the chamber: (into intercom) Hold one minute, please, Captain -- He steps to his console where an is working a computer, studying the readouts, punching buttons, etc. Scott stands over him, grimly observ- ing. Finally, the Asst. simply shrugs with frustration. That's it, sir; can't do any better. (grim) Aye, lad... (into intercom) It's borderline on the simulator, Captain: canna guarantee that she'll... as Kirk, annoyed, interrupts Scott on the intercom. Warp Drive, Mr Scott. McCoy still watches curiously as Kirk turns to the helm: (continuing) Ahead Warp One, Mr Sulu. Accelerating to Warp One, sir. Sulu moves his controls forward -- everyone waits tensely -- and then we (continuing) Warp point seven... point eight ... nine... We the build up between the en- gine "nacelles" -- then the starship makes the into warp drive. The stars ahead shift, streak, colors pulsating and changing as the shift exceeds the wave lengths of the light spectrum -- and the stars congeal into a ahead. as the viewer shows the same or another moment all remain tense, and then all at once relax, release their breaths. Smiles. Warp One, sir. Kirk smiles, pleased, starts swinging his chair around, at the same time calling: Mr. Decker -- Kirk never finishes the word. At that instant, on the viewer, a a sudden narrowing into a into which the Enterprise hurtles. space trap, a deadly pandemonium of (continuing) Wormhole!... Get us back on impulse power! Full reverse! Enterprise has been caught in a matter-time distortion, sucked into a cylindrical "hole in space" (the Worm- hole distortion), stars and planets become strange, elongated shapes, with the Enterprise drawn deeper and deeper into the vortex. The and and the crew responding: Negative helm control, Captain! Going reverse on impulse power...! Subspace frequencies are jammed by Wormhole effect! (terse, flat) Collision alert...! Collision alert...! (Note: Computer alert continues through entire scene.) (consulting his viewer) Negative control from inertial lag will continue 22 point five seconds before forward velocity slows to sub-light speed. Unidentified small object has been pulled into the wormhole with us, Captain! Directly ahead...! Forcefields up full! Put object on viewer...! showing (a magnification view) of a tiny point of light directly ahead. Meanwhile, Kirk shouts an order to Sulu: "Go to Manual override!" Sulu "No manual response...!" (Through all this, McCoy stands frozen, waiting -- and expecting -- the worse.) Meanwhile, Ilia has reached over to Sulu's console, hits a button, "Navigational deflectors coming up...!" And then with alarmed dismay: Navigational deflectors inoperative...! (consulting her console, alarmed) Directional control also inoperative, Captain...! Wormhole distortion has over- loaded main power systems...! The picture is switched through two further levels of magnification, enlarging the object: an elongated, distorted, pitted asteroid, tumbling toward the Enter- prise on a collision course. (toward Ilia) Time to impact...? Twelve seconds...! Mr. Chekov, stand by on the phasers...! (racing to Chekov's station) Delay that phaser order! Arm photon torpedoes...! 133 - McCOY 133 who has just glanced, surprised at Decker (for counter- manding the phaser order) -- and for a split instant, Kirk seems confused. McCoy reacts with enlightenment as, meanwhile: The object even larger. Photon torpedoes armed...! Object is an asteroid, reading mass point seven... (consulting instruments) Impact in eight seconds... seven... six... five... Fire torpedoes...! (punching button) Torpedoes away...! as the starship's photon torpedo tubes which seems to float toward the oncoming asteroid, almost too slowly. And in these brief seconds, the asteroid hurtles at the Enterprise, the huge pitted rock growing even larger than the ship itself. It as the photon torpedoes hit, disintegrating the asteroid into thousands of fragments. Instantly, these fragments pulverize them- selves on the ship's forward forcefield and deflector screens. The smaller pieces burn up on impact, clearly outlining the ship's forcefield barriers. The asteroid fragments still smashing into the force field screen; the smaller bits like as im- pact heat consumes them. The larger sections bouncing away, the bridge as they hit. Then one final gigantic fragment strikes, the bridge And then the viewer shows only the normal The stars ahead, relatively station- ary; a feeling of motion, but smooth, visually normal. (relieved) We're out of it...! We are at warp point eight. Position report, Navigator..? Helm control restored, sir. Computing new interception course. Communications are normal, Captain. (to Kirk) Negative damage report, sir. (to McCoy) No casualties reported, sir. McCOY (tight) Wrong, Mr. Chekov, there are casualties. My wits! (to Kirk, indignant) As in 'frightened-out-of'...! (into intercom) Engineer... report status there. with Scott and his crew pouring over the instruments -- all seem very grim. Scott, quite preoccupied, now speaks into the intercom. In just a second, Exec; we're picking up the pieces down here. Kirk seeming to collect his thoughts now -- he gives Decker a look, uses the intercom himself: Warp Drive as soon as possible, Mr. Scott. (protesting) Captain, it was our anti-matter imbalance that created the wormhole in the first place. It will happen again if we don't correct it. That object out there is less than two days from Earth, Mister Scott. We've got to intercept while it still is out there! (near annoyed) Aye, we understand that sir! We're doing our best. as Kirk flips off the intercom, rises determinedly, faces Decker: Mr. Decker, I'd like to see you in my quarters. (toward helm) You have the conn, Mr. Sulu. McCOY (to Kirk) Mind if tag along? Kirk gives McCoy an annoyed look, then strides to the elevator. Decker, grim, follows -- McCoy brings up the rear as they gazing worriedly at the just-closed elevator doors, as Sulu is punching figures into his console. Maintaining warp point eight; show our new heading as 287 point three Mark 105. Ilia's attention is directed toward Decker. (continuing; gently reminding) Lieutenant Ilia...? (a beat; then quickly) Confirmed, Mr. Sulu. Confirmed. And she punches in some equations, then again peers up at the doors where she last saw Decker. She is very concerned. The doors opening, Kirk entering, McCoy moves to b.g. while Decker stands attentively, waiting as Kirk turns to him. Explanation, Mr. Decker: Why was my phaser order countermanded? (cool, polite) Sir, the Enterprise redesign increases phaser power by channeling it through the main engines. When they went into anti-matter imbalance, the phasers were automatically cut off. Kirk is surprised by this information, perhaps slight- ly chagrined. After a beat: Then you acted properly, of course. Thank you, sir. I'm sorry embar- rassed you. You saved the ship. (coolly) I'm aware of that, sir. (flaring) Stop competing with me, Decker! Permission to speak freely, sir? (tight) Granted. Sir, you haven't logged a single star hour in two and a half years. That, plus your unfamiliarity with the ship's design -- in my opinion, sir, seriously jeopardizes our mission. Kirk reacts with anger. Struggles for and regains control. trust you will... nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister? Yes, sir, I'll do that. Kirk peers at Decker, who stands facing him determinedly. Then won't keep you from your duties any longer, Commander. (whirling at McCoy) Yes, Doctor? Kirk's last line has drowned out Decker's "Aye, sir." McCoy says nothing, waits until Decker is gone and the door closes behind him. Then: McCOY He may not be wrong, Jim. Decker moving toward an elevator -- the elevator doors open, and there is Ilia. She steps out, faces him. Was he difficult? No more than expected (hesitates) Not as difficult as this. I'm sorry... That you left? or that you didn't say 'goodbye'? If I'd seen you again, would you have been able to say it? (long hesitation; then shakes head) No. Ilia whirls, moves toward her stateroom door, which snaps open, then closes behind her. Decker stands gazing at the door, remembering, regretful. - McCOY Get out of here, Bones. McCOY (shakes head) As ship's doctor, am now discussing the subject of command fitness. Kirk's expression hardens. Make your point, Doctor. McCOY The point, Captain, is that it's you who's competing... (a beat, as Kirk reacts) You pulled every string in the book short of blackmail to get the Enterprise -- maybe even that. And when this mission is over, you have no intention of giving her back. (tight) intend to keep her, is that what you're saying, Doctor? McCOY It's an obsession -- that can blind you so far more immediate -- and critical responsibilities. Your reaction to Decker is an example. Kirk studies him a beat; has McCoy touched a nerve? Something Kirk himself might have been unaware of? Kirk starts speaking, but is interrupted by: Bridge to Captain. as Kirk turns to it. Viewer on. At his the viewer comes on with of Uhura at her console. Signal from a Federation-registered long-range shuttle, sir. She wishes to come alongside, and lock on. For what purpose? On the viewer, Chekov's replaces Uhura. It is a courier, Captain. Grade One priority. Non-belligerency confirmed. Very well, Mr. Chekov, see to it. Viewer off. Viewer Kirk turns back to McCoy whose question of Kirk's fitness still hangs there between them. Eye to eye - then, finally: (continuing) Your... opinion has been noted, Doctor. (beat) Is there anything further? McCOY hope not. Kirk nods, exits. McCoy watches him go, hoping his point has gotten through. traveling at a rapid speed; it carries warp-capacity nacelles which dwarf the smaller to 10 position shuttle fuselage. The as it overtakes the Enterprise, the and the shuttle slowing and beginning to move between the starship's giant nacelles. About the size of a fighter airplane floating in over the vastness of an aircraft carrier. The shuttle slows further, hovering now. Then its fuselage pod detaches from the warp drive nacelles -- the pod moving slowly but precisely toward the starship's command airlock. as we the and of the Chekov is standing by with a security man. moment later the hatch slips open - Spock. proud Spock, impassively Vulcan, almost contemptuously aloof. His hair is now trimmed in neat Vulcan style; he wears Vulcan attire simple, civilian, utilitarian.) Permission to come aboard, sir? Granted, sir! Granted! Spock is already moving out of the pod entry area, im- passive, no greeting on his lips; no friendship in his expression. pulling away from Enterprise. The elevator doors open, and there is Spock. It takes everyone a moment to believe their eyes. Then, the Bridge crew their surprise and pleasure. Spock...! Spock, where...how...? Kirk, smiling, is moving toward Spock with hand out- stretched. But Spock has already turned and moved toward the science console where Decker sits. Commander, if may...? It takes Decker a moment to realize that Spock wants to take over the console. He begins getting to his feet, throwing Kirk a look. But Kirk's attention is totally on And Spock is already intent on com- putations he is beginning to punch into the science console computer. have been monitoring your Starfleet transmissions, Captain, your engine design difficulties. Spock continues to punch information into the science computer -- a monitor screen begins to show com- plex equations which Spock inspects -- he makes a further computer punch out and inspects a second monitor of other equations. Only then does Spock seem to become aware of Kirk and Decker standing there with questioning expressions. (continuing) offer my services as Science Officer. Kirk starts to grin -- then remembers to wipe it off his face as he turns to Decker. If our Executive Officer has no objections...? (interrupting) Of course not. I'm aware of Mister Spock's qualifications. (grinning openly now; turns, calls) Mister Chekov, log Mister Spock's Starfleet commission reactivated; list him as Science Officer; both effective immediately. as they open -- McCoy and Chapel appear. Chapel sees Spock at the science console -- she moves in quickly, overjoyed. Even McCoy seems pleased. Mr. Spock...!!! McCOY So help me, I'm actually pleased to see you. But as Chapel crosses to Spock, her pleased smile brightening her whole face, Spock turns, dismisses her presence with a cold disinterested glance -- Chapel stops, stands dumbfounded. Spock gives McCoy a similar glance - turns back to his console readings as: That's how we all feel, Mister... The same cold glance causes Uhura to stop in mid- sentence. Several grins directed toward Spock are now fading from bridge crew faces. Spock has turned back again for a last quick reading at the console and now stands -- totally ignoring everyone else as he speaks coolly, unemotionally to Kirk: With your permission, will now discuss these fuel equations with the Engineer. Kirk manages a nod, a bit dumbfounded himself at Spock's strange manner. Spock heads for the elevator -- puz- zled expressions from the entire bridge crew. Then Kirk calls after him, very sincerely: Mister Spock, welcome aboard! Spock continues onto the elevator without any acknow- ledgment, leaves. Kirk glances, perplexed, at McCoy. McCoy, equally perplexed, shrugs. McCOY Never look a gift Vulcan in the ears, Jim. traveling past the stars, sub-warp. this: (buoyant) Captain's Log. Stardate 7413.4. Thanks to Mr. Spock's timely arrival - and assistance... Scott making an intermix chamber reading with a hand- held timer-temperature device which emits while Spock now in regulation uniform and hair trim, makes adjustments in the circuitry of a panel complex. Dur- ing the following, they will react as if they've solved the engine problem. (continues) ... we have the engines rebalanced into full warp capacity. Repair time less than three hours... Sulu at the helm, accelerating; just a touch of tense- ness in crew as they move toward the speed which earlier threw them into the "wormhole" effect. (continues) ... which means we will now be able to intercept Intruder while still more than a day from Earth. Stars accelerating as Sulu calls off: Warp point eight... point nine... The viewer shows the into warp drive. The stars ahead shift, streak and congeal into (continuing) Warp one, sir. The others wait, then show relief as: (continuing) Warp two, sir... warp three... He continues to seven. Engineering to Bridge... New intermix balance holding steady. She's not even straining! Where, first, the myriad of stars, space, the whole magnificent vista. In the lounge, empty but for them, are Kirk and McCoy -- obviously awaiting Spock, who and presents himself cold and aloof as before: Reporting as ordered, Captain. Sit down, please. Spock remains standing, addresses Kirk: Sir, would appreciate Dr. McCoy absenting himself from this interview. want him here. (indicating) Sit down! For an instant, it looks like Spock will refuse. Then, he complies but sits formally, rigidly. He ignores McCoy totally. You've reported that you felt strong thought emotions. group of minds from a space vessel? Could you make out any plan, anything to do with Earth? (still formally) Negative, Captain. could sense only what seemed an almost omniscient pattern of perfect logic. can explain nothing more; understand nothing more. Kirk is clearly disappointed -- and a bit uncomfortable about what he must ask next. He exchanges a glance with McCoy, then: Also -- there was nothing in your report about why you're here. That inquiry invades my personal life, Captain. McCOY Spock, we've already guessed why you're here... inquired about you -- learned you were studying with the Masters... Although Spock has been almost infuriatingly emotionless, his expression shifts slightly. McCoy indicates this: McCOY That flicker of emotion confirms our guess. You failed. (facing McCoy for the first time) Your deductions do you credit, Doctor... if your puerile curiosity does not. McCOY (not in amusement) And now, anger, Spock? Spock looks straight ahead -- his face instantly com- posed to almost total blankness. (beat; nods) still contain fragments of my human half. And whatever you sensed out here.... ... is my only hope of accomplishing what the Masters could not. McCOY If you achieve perfect logic, Spock, you'll pay a price. It's given your planet ten thousand years of peace, but no poetry's been written since then, no music. Spock has come to his feet fast - but Kirk is on his feet too, confronting him. During which: Let it drop, Bones. (to Spock) You are my Science Officer -- I'll expect an immediate report on anything further you learn or sense from here on. have accepted service here as a Starfleet officer... sir. (nods) know this has been painful, Spock. For me too. Thank you. Spock Kirk and McCoy exchange a troubled look, then too as the view of space there. pushing red alert. The the red lights begin Red alert! Red alert! All regulars in position (different uniforms), extra hurrying in from elevators to man the remainder of the console positions. Decker is making a bridge circuit. Full mag on viewer! Sulu hits a control -- viewer seems to and in the distance we a point of light which grows into the The same as seen by the Klingons and Starfleet's Epsilon Nine station. Myster- ious, beautiful, and menacing. (continuing) Linguacode? Continuing friendship messages on all frequencies, sir. All decks and divisions confirm status red. (flat, impassive) We are being scanned, Captain. as Kirk whirls toward Spock's station, calls out: Do not return scan, Mr. Spock! It may be misinterpreted as hostility! Intruder scans emanate from the exact cloud center. Energy of a type entirely un- known to me. (after a moment) No response to friendship messages, Captain. Should go to battle stations, sir. Negative, We'll take no prov- ocative action. Decker has reacted sharply, disapprovingly, to this: Recommend defensive posture, Captain: Screens and shields. No... (pause) ... that could also be misinter- preted as hostile, Mr. Decker. (to Spock) Cloud composition, Mr. Spock? Twelve power energy field -- (in disbelief) -- twelve power?! (urgently) Captain, we've seen what their weapons can do. Shouldn't we take every possible precaution -- ? Mr Decker.... (interrupting) Captain, suspect there's an object at the heart of that cloud. (cool) Mr. Decker, will not provoke an attack, If that order isn't clear to you... (interrupting in mid sentence) Captain, as your Exec, it's my duty to point out alternatives. moment of thought from Kirk. Five minutes to Cloud boundary! (a look) stand corrected Mr. Decker. (toward Ilia) Navigator, lay in a conic section flight path into the cloud center; bring us parallel to whatever we find in there... The Cloud has now grown so large it Sulu hits a button, reducing magnif- cation. Immediately, the diminishes in size -- but almost instantly begins Decker's annoyance (with Kirk) suddenly seems to dissipate as his total attention is diverted to the cloud. Decker turning to Spock That measures twelve power? Ten thousands of starships couldn't generate that much... Decker trails his words, realizing that Spock isn't hearing a word. Spock's attention is on the main viewer, totally absorbed by something he's feeling. He is slowly rising from his seat, stepping forward -- Kirk becomes conscious of this, turns and sees Spock's strange expression. Before he can speak: They have... they have been communicating with us. sense ... puzzlement. Why have we not replied? Communicated with us how? Spock shakes his head... then reacts as if sensing or theorizing something further. He turns, moves quickly to his console, begins there as if searching for something. Interrupted by another Signal medical alert, Mister Chekov! Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, ... mark, zero. Incoming fire. Ahead. Zero, mark, zero. showing a streaking from the Cloud! Forcefields now...! Deflectors up full! Commencing evasive maneuvers... ! Bridge begins to tilt. Forcefields and deflectors up full, Captain. The speeds toward the Enterprise, which veers sharply away now -- but With the on the main viewer, closer and closer -- heading straight-on for the Star- ship. From the Bridge a but all organized and disciplined with the and then as though traveling the last short distance (actually several million miles) in the wink of an eye -- the The bridge lights go out. In the sudden darkness, the main viewer is all at once a frantic, furious, pattern of accompanied by an It seems to cling to the forcefields, the incredible energy of the forcefield barriers. as a sheet of bursts from Chekov's console -- a of engulfs Chekov's arm. Automatic fire control nozzles over him as he falls twisting and groaning in pain. Ilia reacts first, crossing quickly to assist Chekov -- Decker joins her, taking over Chekov's console. The enveloping the entire vessel, outlining it starkly. (And outlining, too, the forcefield screens and deflectors -- batter- ing at them, seeking some gap through which to penetrate.) The bridge still darkened, and on the viewer the splattering the entire viewing screen with forcing all to shield their eyes against the impossible glare. smoking panel spewing over and past Scott and his crew. Bypass...! Alternate Integrators! as, first on the viewer, the clings another moment then begins And then it is gone. The bridge lights go on again. Elevator doors open. Doctor Chapel and Medical Corps- men arrive and cross immediately to where Ilia tends to the injured Chekov. The new screens held...! Engineering to bridge; we cannot hold full power on forcefields; deflector power is down seventy percent! Over the following, we will Captain Kirk order; "Divert auxiliary systems power to deflectors!" and answer: "All auxiliary power to deflectors, sir." Meanwhile, Chapel and Corpsmen giving medical treatment to Chekov who is in agony. Chapel is about to give an injection. No, can stop his pain. The Deltan woman takes Chekov's upper arm in both her hands, kneading her fingers deep into nerve centers -- Chekov's pain begins to quickly recede and he is almost startled by the sudden relief. Doctor Chapel, now spraying plasti-skin on the burned hand and wrist, gives Ilia a surprised, approving look and a flicker of female friendship passes between the Deltan and Earth woman. (setting up a later story point) The energy brilliance gone now, we can the is very close -- the closest we have seen it yet, and the Aurora effect is spectacular; a vast, dense blan- ket of whirling abruptly in his chair, addressing Kirk: Captain, the Intruder has been attempting to communicate! Now placing their transmission on the speaker... Immediately, from the we a (continuing) ... frequency more than one million megahertz at such high speed their entire message lasts only a millisecond. Chapel and Corpsman are assisting Chekov from the bridge (we'll have that the remarkable plasti- skin sprayed on his hand has completley covered the ugly burn marks - he is even able to move his fingers a bit). Ilia returns to her station -- a relief takes over from Decker at Chekov's console. so we can in more detail Spock's monitor -- various oscillating waves, and more of the as Spock manipulates his equipment, and continues: suspect our messages were too slow for them to be noticed. (touches a control) Programming computer to send linguacode at their rate. Decker has hurried in to assist the science console. Spock indicates a console area -- Decker works there -- Spock works another section of console buttons. The Cloud ever closer to the ship now, which is a mere dot in space compared to the immensity of the energy- seething, continuous color-exploding Cloud. And then, suddenly, from the Cloud -- Bearing down upon the Enterprise. where the oncoming is emerging from the Cloud. In the b.g., are alert lights flashing, etc Here it comes...! Incoming fire. Ahead, zero, mark, zero, point two. Incoming fire. Ahead, zero, zero, mark, zero... (into intercom) Engineering... what's happening to our forcefields?! Much frenetic activity here, previous damage being repaired, the main shaft and a harassed Scott at the intercom: Systems are overloading, Captain! Our shields cannot handle another attack! The streaking toward the ship. (desperately) Mr. Spock? Impact in fifteen seconds... Spock -- Decker assisting -- works frantically. Spock is clearly dissatisfied, shakes his head tightly. Transmit, Mr. Spock! Now! Ten seconds.... as Spock hits the "transmit" button, and we the (lasting but a fraction of a second), and Decker calls to Kirk: Transmitting...! ... five seconds. where the is now almost upon us! Then the abruptly In the blink of an eye, the entire relief, incredulity. It appears that our message has been understood, Captain. (to Uhura) Any reply from them? Negative, no reply, sir. (returning to Spock) Spock, have you sensed anything else? Spock turns, gives the viewer a glance. Then he shakes head. The 'puzzlement' sensed was fleeting... minor... (ponders, then) ... as if carrying a sense of our insignificance, Captain. Our... 'insignificance'? All have reacted to this; Kirk exchanges a look with Spock who nods firmly. Then Kirk sees that both Decker and Sulu are throwing him a questioning look. In b.g. McCoy and Chapel have bridge with Chekov. We are obviously confronted by a highly advanced mentality... yet they cannot understand who we are, or what we want. But they understood our messages; they broke off the attack. They may have attacked only as a warning to us, Captain. To keep away. That would presuppose a feeling, Commander... compassion. sensed no emotion, only... (reverentially) ... pure logic. Kirk peers at Spock hoping for some assistance on the decision; but Spock merely peers back at him ex- pressionlessly: the decision is Kirk's. Kirk faces Spock one last beat, then turns and starts back to- ward his chair, calling to Ilia. Tactical plot on viewer. where the of the "powerfield Cloud: changes to a tactical plot of Enterprise's conic flight path ap- proach. It shows a large schematic of the Cloud itself as well as a series of schematics of various recent positions and directional attitudes of the Enterprise during its approach. These blinking Enterprise schematics show that the starship has gone from a head-on approach to the Cloud into a (tech. advice) skidding movement around the Cloud (the star- ship always heading directly toward Cloud center), with the last Enterprise positions now showing it ap- roaching the Cloud from a quartering rear approach. Thirty seconds to Cloud boundary... Opinion, Mister. Spock? Recommend we proceede, Captain. Mr. Decker... ? advise caution, Captain; we can't withstand another attack. That thing is twenty hours from Earth. We know nothing about it yet. Decker glances around, moves close to Kirk so only Spock is able to overhear: That's precisely the point, Captain. We don't know it will do. Moving into the cloud -- at this time, is an unwarranted gamble. How do you define unwarranted, mister?! You asked my opinion, sir. Kirk looks at him, then at Spock, who once more is peering in momentary concentration at the viewer, feels Kirk's gaze -- and turns to him, again expres- sionlessly; it's up to Kirk. Fifteen seconds to Cloud Boundary. Viewer, standard ahead. Main viewer reverts to the "powerful cloud." All peer in grim fascination at the cloud another moment. Then: 187 Kirk sits contemplating his next move. Once again, the 187 decision is his. He looks to the Viewer a moment, then: (to Helm) Mr. Sulu, steady as she goes. Aye, sir. as the Enterprise slowly enters deeper toward the chamber ahead. We the sheer size of the Cloud as opposed to that of the small ship now entering unknown territory. As the Enterprise enters the Cloud: On Viwscreen we a vast array of spiralling changing in size, shape, colour. Its walls spinning and turning, looping and twisting, as the Enterprise proceeds further Into the Cloud. Amazed bridge crew members can do nothing but awe at the sight before thier eye's. Even Spock has turned to view the sight now illuminating the View screen. Kirk sits pondering, amazed, thinking "What comes next?" Moving slowly through the maze of seen from the Main Viewer. as the all now. Everyone gazes at the viewer, almost mesmerized by the shifting violet power- field displays. (staring at viewer, frustrated, awed) No vessel could generate a powerfield of this magnitude... Instruments fluctuating, Captain. Patterns unrecognizable. Captain....! Sulu peering toward main viewer, his eyes wide with incredulity. Crew peering at main viewer with expressions of near disbelief. Similar reactions as Kirk and Decker turn too, reacting to: The Cloud "Aurora" rapidly thinning -- in the "eye of the hurricane" center of the Cloud is the object which has stunned the entire bridge crew. Rapidly growing in size -- already frighteningly huge. Totally alien in look. Its enormous bulk is irrides- cent, faintly glowing, suggesting that it is made up of exotic combinations of matter, and energy far beyond the scientific knowledge or ability of Earth's 23rd Century technology. Menacing and yet strangely beautiful, both at the same time. The Object continues to as the Enterprise continues moving toward it. Everyone is awed; even Spock, from whom we discern an involuntary, impressed reaction. Decker is with Spock at the science console. Incredible dimensions, Sir! ... make it as seventy-eight kilometers in length... All digest the dimensions, as: opening to admit McCoy and Chekov, whose face and hands are taut with plastiskin applications. Seeing the object on the viewer at this Chekov's eyes open with wide astonishment. He crosses quickly to his weapons--defense station, his eyes on the viewer. McCoy, eyes also fixed on the sight, moves to Kirk's side. It could hold a crew of tens of thousands...! McCOY Or just one thousand, ten miles tall. Evaluation, Mister Spock? (This will be the first time we've seen Spock dislay- ing a definite reaction, almost an emotion.) So engrossed is Spock in the main viewer that he appears not to have heard Kirk, whose a sharp "Mr. Spock...!" Spock looks absently at Kirk an instant, then: (awed; compelled) That vessel is generating a forcefield measurably greater than the radiation of the Earth's sun. (turns to Uhura) Transmit image of the Alien to Starfleet; advise we are attempting further communication. (interrupting) Unable to make contact with Starfleet. Our transmissions out of the Cloud are being reflected back. Distance to object now seventy- thousand kilometers... (turning; concerned) We're closing in on it rapidly, Captain. Concern reflected on the faces of others too. Kirk considers his next move. as it moves on a parallel--closing course -- Alien continues to Although it already seems an impossibly large vessel compared to the Enterprise, in reality they are still tens of thousands of kilometers apart; the incredible size of the Alien is nowhere near being realized yet. Tension high as -- the Alien now appears so close that its Considerable tension of bridge -- crew members, throwing nervous looks from viewer to Kirk. How much closer?! Reduce magnification. Factor 4, Mr. Sulu. (uneasy) We're already two settings below that, sir. (reacts, then) Adjust parallel course, Navigator. Bring us in to one hundred kilometers distance. Very nervous looks now directed toward Kirk. Even Spock gives him a glance, a raised eyebrow. The Alien Object appears and still We begin to Alien exterior detailing which had not even been suspected at a longer distance. The Enterprise is now quartering in toward the Intruder, coming closer and closer. The Alien vessel is still -- more and more, its exterior appears to be made of substances never before seen by a human eye -- substances considered possible only in the wildest flights of scientific theory -- plasma-matter, energy fields diamond--hard in their power, solid sheets of subatomic particles, crystalline-lace patterns which seem capable of shifting their nature and rearranging themselves. This time, the Enterprise travels on away from us, as its course takes it angling nearer and nearer the gigantic Alien Intruder -- the Starship dwindling in size, growing smaller, smaller, smaller... until it is a tiny dot compared to the enormity of the Alien vessel. We are coming alongside the mid-section of the Alien vessel, now so huge that only a small section of it now completely fills main viewer frame. One hundred kilometers... Hold relative position here... Kirk's voice is blotted out by a accompanied by a multi-hued point of which into obscuring everything for an instant. Overlapping this action, we Intruder alert...! Intruder alert! Continues. The and in its lace we a strange "entity" shocking us with its frightening appearance and its ugly-sounding of power. It is about seven feet tall and resembles a "blob" of raw energy in shifting patterns and colors of deep, ugly hues of upper spectrum violet. Yet, it looks strangely alive. At the end of the "tendril" (of light) is an "eye" (a small multi-colored device) The bridge crew reacting hard, shocked and shaken -- the of the Alien thing intensifies as it begins to move across the bridge. Suddenly, in b.g., an elevator door snaps oen and two burst onto the bridge, phasers drawn. Chekov shouts warningly at the Men: No weapons...! But Chekov is too late: First Security Man -- the harmlessly absorbed by the Probe which emits a nerve-grating --- sends out a which instantly envelopes First Security Man in a (of implosion). Second Security Man has almost lifted his phaser -- but now carefully, slowly is moving his hand away from his weapon. the First Security Man has simply vanished. Chekov, like the others, horrified, flips a switch and the ("Intruder Alert") goes At the same time Chekov speaks into his intercom: Security... do not send further teams! The Probe is sending out snake-like tendrils to the various consoles on the bridge. These tendrils lash out in a cobra-strike movement, the tendril-head seeming to enter into the console affected -- at which time all monitors and instrument lights there come as if the Probe is "reading" each console function. The crew carefully stays clear of the tendrils. Spock has risen, moving to Kirk's side as he slowly brings his tricorder up, very carefully extracting its tiny sensor and aiming it at the probe. (shaken) No intruder readings on other decks, Captain... (to Spock) Can that be one of their crew? (quiet) probe from their vessel... (to Kirk) plasma-energy combination... Meanwhile, the probe is now hovering near Chekov who sits frozen, fists clenched, jaw tight. Don't interfere with it...! Absolutely, will not interfere! as the "probe" withdraws an energy-tendril from one bridge station and "inserts" it into another console. No one interfere...! It doesn't seem interested in us -- only the ship...! Kirk's words are never completed as suddenly all the energy tendrils withdraw from all consoles and a larger, more powerful-looking tendril lashes out, snaking into the science console complex. Where, also immediately, all the console and computer lights are suddenly flashing wildly, rapidly -- -- There is an incredibly fast -- the computer obviously in unauthorized commu- nication with the probe! Computer off! It's taken control of the computer...! It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth defenses... As Decker moves to the main power control, Spock now steps in, his Vulcan strength easily brushing Kirk and Decker aside. Spock clasps his fists above his head, brings it down in a on the console. It splits open! As the bridge lights dim even more, and as the science console shorts itself out -- and off, Decker confronts Spock: We could have cut it off at the main computer... This served the purpose. Kirk has been giving Spock a puzzled look -- Spock now turns abruptly, and: as Spock, in stepping back, accidentally brushes the probe's energy tendril -- a at the contact point sends Spock sinning under the rail and to the floor near Ilia. The probe's energy-tendril has withdrawn from the darkened science console, hov- ers high over the dazed Spock as if angrily seeking the reason for the break in its computer contact. Spock starts to rise. Mr. Spock, don't move...! Decker steps toward her, a grim "Ilia...!" But he has no chance as: The Probe hovers over her, its whole mass seemingly about to envelope her with a single tendril extended toward her, somehow freezing her into immobility - and then the entire Probe obscuring Ilia. Almost instantly the -- but Ilia has vanished -- her tricorder clattering to the deck. helpless, shocked, gazing at the place Ilia was -- but which is now empty. (to Kirk, quiet fury) This is how define unwarranted! And almost at the same moment a new 233 The still sounding as from the giant alien ves- 233 sel, we Kirk vaults to the command chair, lunges for controls, as Decker races to the weapons-defense console. (voice amplified) The ship is under attack...! Man all defensive stations...! Forcefields, full remaining strength...! Total reserve! Appropriate and begin and all this is lost in a (a constant, high-pitched tone). For a moment the energy patterns are prominent on the viewer -- and then the and the -- and: showing V'ger The Enterprise is being pulled along the length of the big ship, toward its "prow." Captain, we have been seized by a tractor beam...! (to Decker) Get someone up here to take the Navigator's station...! (into intercom) Engineering... full emergency power! (into intercom) Chief Difalco to the bridge; on the double! in a state of controlled chaos, all personnel at their stations, the Engine Scott is working his controls, speaking into the intercom: Going to full emergency... (studying readings) But Captain, if we don't break free in fifteen seconds, she'll burn up... as Spock studies his readings, and: We cannot break free, Captain. (indicates monitors) We do not have a fraction of the power necessary. (into intercom) Delay that order, Scotty...! Disengage all main drive systems! Spock peers in deep concentration at the Main Viewer, trying to sense some clue. Kirk glances at him another moment, then turns to the Main Viewer himself, watches in frustrated helplessness. the starship being pulled toward the giant as though on a taut cable. As we we still more intricate details of the incredible Alien design. as Difalco arrives on the run, and Decker to her, "Assume Navigator's station, Chief...!" Difalco, bewildered, wants to ask what happened, but no time, and she quickly sits at the post, begins orienting herself. Meanwhile, Decker has begun an Executive Officer's bridge circuit, assisting with various con- soles. Kirk is glancing toward Spock who continues concentrating on the Viewer, striving to comprehend the myriad of thoughts he is sensing from he Aliens. McCoy also arrives on the bridge, takes in the chaotic scene, watches the Viewer grimly. At the forward end of the giant, an odd-shapped "iris" begins opening menacingly. And it is frighteningly obvious that the tractor beam is pulling the Enterprise to the opening. showing the unusual "iris" now almost fully open as Enterprise is drawn closer, closer -- through the "iris" we now (some of) V'ger's interior: a dark void relieved only by strange flickering glows of dis- tant The crew reacts with understandable awe, apprehension, curiosity, as: Captain, suggest a maximum phaser strike directly at the beam might weaken it just enough for us to break free -- Spock replies for Kirk: quickly, as though to make his point convincingly: Break free to where, Commander...? (to Kirk) Any show of resistance would not only be futile, Catain... McCOY as Kirk reacts somewhat curiously to Spock's remark, but it is Decker who articulates it: (troubled; suspicious) We don't know that, Mr. Spock. Why are you opposed to trying? Before Spock can reply: They're pulling us inside...! All face the Viewer again, react, with McCoy who has been observing all these reactions now galvanized into action: McCOY (to Chekov) Medical observers to all decks! And he hurries toward the elevators, a moment, then Kirk staring at the viewer -- the "iris" now fully open so that the exterior of V'ger is no longer visible -- and all we can is the monstrous void dead ahead, which is looming faster and larger before our eyes. And now we are inside. Enterprise now being pulled past the opening -- into the ship proper. Now we can that the dark void is actually a vast chamber, dimly and intermittently lit by appearing and vanishing along the vessel's inner walls, which are miles away in the distance. And here and there in the chamber gigantic erupt briefly with a certain symmetry that suggests they must be part of V'ger's ower or control systems. Kirk peering awed at the Viewer, the incredible sight of the chamber -- suddenly glances up to see that Spock is standing beside him -- Decker nearby, turns to Spock: (to Spock) Why bring us inside? Not to destroy us; they could have done that outside. They could have many ways of destroying things, Mr. Decker. (peering at Viewer) Something about us puzzles them... perhaps even concerns them. Reacting to a console reading: Captain, photic-sonar readings indicate the aperture is closing; we're trapped, sir...! The starship is pulled inside, the "iris" is closing behind it. The viewer image changing from the huge dark chamber, rear angle shot, showing the "iris" closing. Reverse angle on the viewer, Captain. On the viewer the final glimmer from exterior space as the "iris" closes completely. All eyes on the viewer, the reality of the situation etched into each face. Then: As Spock turns from a reading: The tractor beam has released us, Captain. Confirmed: Vessel is floating free. No forward momentum. Viewer ahead. Viewer ahead, sir. Ahead, the cavernous interior of V'ger. Kirk eying the main viewer -- Decker watching Kirk. Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu; ahead one third. (to Spock) Full sensor scan, Mr. Spock; they can't expect us not to look them over now! (manipulating controls) Thrusters ahead, one third. (manipulating controls) Commencing sensor scans. Kirk rises, goes to Spock's station. The Enterprise moving slowly forward in this vastness, its running lights merely specks of light, candles in the darkness. In the distance those occasional in distant locations, sizes, shapes and patterns. showing another persective of the above, and further away dimly illuminating the alien ship's walls -- miles away. Strange semi--solid (some are "sensor-bee" swarms) traverse the dark- ness in random directions. But in the distance ahead, there seems to be an opening to another chamber. (of Viewer) Something ahead, sir; looks like another area... (reacts) It's closing up...! Sulu is indicating what appears to be a lace-bulwark of closing off the "chamber" in the distance ahead. Kirk, from the Science Station calls out: Hold station...! (manipulating controls) Thrusters at station keeping... at his Science consoles, working rapidly, shifting from one set of controls to another. Now he hits a master control -- his console monitors then go dark. Captain... Spock brings a monitor again, indicates a (Povill) pattern showing a line hitting something, then reversing direction. (continuing) All scans are being reflected back, Captain. Our sensors are useless. Kirk reacts with disappointment, indicates the main viewer. Have you been able to analyze any of this...? (voice increasingly reverential) believe the light flares to be energy fields -- undoubtedly part of the vessel's inner mechanism. technology so incredibly sophisticated that cannot -- (overlapping) Intruder Alert! Intruder Alert..! (continues) Reacting to a console reading: Deck four, Captain; Officers' Quarters...! (to Chekov) Have a security team meet me at Deck Four main elevator! moment's reaction from all at this, Kirk hurrying toward elevator, calling: (continuing) Take the conn, Mr. Decker: Hold present position... (gesturing Spock to join him) Spock... And Spock rises, joins Kirk and they hurriedly exit, the to Decker, his perplexed con- cern (because of Ilia). Where we behind the translucent stall door, what is unmistakably the form of the entering, Spock slightly behind him - and one Security Guard. Kirk glances around the room, now glances at the shower area and reacts as he sees the The others react similarly, even Spock cannot help re- pressing an expression of surprise. moment's uncer- tainty as Kirk peers at them, then he steps to the stall door, hesitates another instant -- then slides the door open. Arrange lighting for bizarre, mysterious effect.) Kirk's eyes cannot believe what he is seeing: standing in the sonic mist, naked but for a small multi-colored button embedded in her throat. As she looks at Kirk -- and the others -- the men peer back at her, speechless. have been programmed by V'ger to observe and record normal functioning of the carbon-based units infesting Kirk peers at her another nonplussed moment, then leans into the shower to touch a control, his eyes fixed on the lovely body behind the mist. He punches in a three digit code. Immediately a emanates from the shower stall, Kirk closing the door, but 'Ilia" remaining inside. The just now reaching a gentle crescendo -- through the translucent door you can see And now the "Ilia", attired in a leisure robe, steps from the stall, into the room. She stands facing Kirk, her face impas- sive, eyes unblinking. He looks her back a moment, then glances at Spock, who is gazing at "Ilia" in abso- lute fascination. Kirk addresses her: Who is...'V'ger'...? V'ger is that which programmed me. Is V'ger the Captain of the alien vessel? - McCOY rushing in, concerned: McCOY Jim, what's -- At the sight of 'Ilia", McCoy's words die in his throat -- and his trained eyes have instantly told him some- thing is awry. He unslings his tricorder, aims the sensor unit at "Ilia". As he reads his instruments, his face reveals the results (incredulity, fascination). Meanwhile, from the start: V'ger is that which seeks the Creator. McCOY (of "Ilia") Jim, this is a mechanism...! Kirk stares at McCoy, then at "Ilia" and realizes that "Ilia" is indeed non-human. And quickly: Where is Lt. Ilia? That unit no longer functions. have been given its form to more readily communicate with the carbon-based units infesting Enterprise. "Carbon-based units"...? McCOY (drily) Humans, Ensign Lang: us. (continues tricorder exam, increasingly impressed) (to "Ilia") Why does V'ger travel to the third planet of the solar system directly ahead? V'ger travels to the third planet to find the Creator. Stunned, disbelieving reactions as all four attempt to digest this -- Spock gazing at "Ilia" with even more rapt fascination. Kirk, bewildered, addresses the others: Find the Creator? What Creator? Whose...!? (to "Ilia") What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'... ? To join with him. suddenly alert, addressing "Ilia": Join with the Creator... ? How? V'ger and the Creator will become One. Who is the Creator? McCOY (worried) Mr. Spock, be careful. The Creator is that which created V'ger. Who is V'ger? V'ger is that which seeks the Creator. Another moment of total exasperation, frustration, during which "Ilia" seems to be waiting politely, patiently for any further questions. When none are forthcoming: (continuing; pleasant, bland) am ready to commence my observations. (fast; to McCoy) Doctor, a thorough examination of this probe might provide some insight into those who manufactured it, and how to deal with them. McCOY Let's get her to sickbay. And he grasps "Ilia's" arm to escort her. But is as though he has seized cast iron: immovable. McCoy is thrown off balance merely by 'Ilia's" remaining sta- tionary. She ignores McCoy, addresses Kirk: am programmed to observe and record normal functioning procedures of the carbon-based units. Kirk glances at McCoy, who is totally bemused, but then Kirk quickly responds to "Ilia": The examination is a normal function. (a beat) You may proceede. McCOY (carefully) Thank you. scanning a "body". McCoy, Chapel, Kirk, Spock and Chekov -- standing over who lies prone on the table, the physicians moving the scanner over her. McCOY (from the start; indicating) ... micro-miniature hydraulics, sensors, molecule-sized multi- processor chips... and look at this... In the b.g., Decker enters, grimly observes the proceed- ings. (impressed) An osmotic micro-pump... here and here. Even the smallest body functions are exactly duplicated. (traces with finger on screen) And every exocrine system is here, too -- Chapel breaks off abruptly, noticing "Ilia" is peering intently -- almost with a glimmer of recognition -- at Decker. Slightly disconcerted, Chapel continues: (continuing) -- even eye moisture. (peering at Decker) Deck -- er. as everyone reacts to "Ilia's" utterance of Decker's name. It seems to make the deepest impression on Spock, confirming something he has suspected. (to "Ilia") Interesting. Not 'Decker-unit'? "Ilia" continues peering at Decker with just a hint of a puzzled frown, a glimmer of distant recognition. It's the first time we've seen her expression look anything but cool and bland. This results in the quizzical rising of one of Spock's eyebrows. McCoy's examination now turns "Ilia" away from the others. Spock quickly catches Kirk's and Decker's attention, indicates an adjoining door -- they fol- low him out of the room. 259 McCOY'S 259 as Kirk, Spock and Decker enter, the door snapping shut -- and Spock touching the electronic lock to secure them. He faces the others: Captain... this probe may be a key a key to the Aliens. It's a programmed mechanism, Mr. Spock... We have just seen that its body duplicates our navigator in precise detail. Suppose that beneath its programming, the real Ilia's memory patterns are duplicated with equal precision. They had a pattern to follow... (nods) ... they may have followed it too precisely. (comprehending) Ilia's memory, her feelings of loyalty, friendship, obedience... might all be there. also comprehending, and not liking it one bit as Spock and Kirk are both turning their attention to him. Exactly. (to Decker) And you did have a 'relationship' with Lieutenant Ilia, Commander. That probe in there -- in a different form now -- is the same thing that killed Ilia! Commander, we're locked in an alien vessel, six hours from Earth orbit, our only contact with our captors is the probe. If we can control it, persuade it, use it in some way... Interrupted by the of someone trying to open the locked door behind them. Then a as they whirl to see: with the -- and a single hand slicing the steel door like paper. It is the "Ilia" probe, her face absolutely impassive, her whole manner incongruously benign. (Behind her, a startled McCoy, Chapel and Chekov.) "Ilia" speaks flatly, blandly. have recorded enough here. (motions to Kirk) You will now assist me further. Kirk exchanges a quick glance with Spock. Then: (indicating Decker) The Decker-unit can assist you with much greater efficiency... "Ilia" has seemed about to object -- but now her eyes hold on Decker. Then she nods. (continuing) Carry on with your assignment, Mr. Decker. as Decker looks at "Ilia" who stands at the torn door. You can read Decker's mind: I'm supposed to persuade that?! He turns back, finds Kirk's eyes on him. Decker nods. Aye, sir. "Ilia" and a reluctant Decker looking very troubled as they watch Decker and "Ilia" leave. Kirk notices. Spock? Concerned about his chances? am uneasy with that being our only hope of more information. Spock floating in the vast, eerie, alien chamber -- sporadic erupting now and then. Various other this, Kirk's Captain's Log. Stardate 7414.1. Our best estimates place us some four hours from Earth. No significant Ilia memory patterns within the alien probe. This remains our only means of contact with our captor. The area dimly lit -- unoccupied but for a lone checking and adjusting instruments. The him to His face fixed with grim determination, walking quietly with obvious intent not to attract the Tech's attention. Now he steals up behind the -- and in an instant has applied a Vulcan nerve pinch. The Tech slumps over his console. Showing a of then for an of Decker and "Ilia" walk- ing through the Rec Deck. Kirk watching this -- and with him is McCoy. They continue watching a troubled beat, as: (of pictures) All these vessels were called "Enterprise". "Ilia" is giving the pictures a very interested look as we in Kirk's cabin: (controlled excitement) Bridge to Captain... Uhura at her console, struggling to hear the signal. Kirk here. In the b.g., Spock's station a is replacing the broken Science Station computer. (Spock is conspicuously absent.) faint signal from Starfleet, sir. They have the intruder on their monitors... (struggling to hear) They show us... three hours... twenty-four minutes from Earth! (thru intercom) Thank you. Decker and "Ilia", the Rec Deck unoccupied but for a pair of wary at a very discreet dis- tance. They are near the pictures of the five Enter- prises, which should be in this as Decker waves his hand about the huge room. The carbon units use this area for recreation... (carefully) What type of recreation does the crew aboard your vessel enjoy...? As "Ilia" moves on into the room, Decker follows: The words 'recreation' and 'enjoy' have no meaning to my programming. Decker peers at the lovely android with frustration -- and no little pain, for she is after all the exact replica of Ilia. She pays not the slightest attention to Decker's reaction, and begins walking about the Rec Deck taking in (and, clearly, transmitting all images to V'ger) the sights. They are near a game area (elec- tronic games), and now Decker points to one game, switches it on -- presses button to activate its and "Ilia" watches interestedly as Decker operates the game. Ilia 'enjoyed' this game... she nearly always won -- And he demonstrates again, as "Ilia" steps to the device, deftly hits some buttons -- and for just an instant she turns to Decker with a momentary glimmer of recognition. McCoy watching with special interest: McCOY (approving) Good! He's using audial-visual association. But the words are not out of McCoy's mouth when "Ilia" says: This device serves no purpose. She steps away from the game; Decker's disappointment is evident. So is everyone elses. Damn...! McCOY (nods grimly) She needs something else: something much more personal to stimulate memory patterns. Something with a more emotional tie. Kirk reacts to this, reflective. Decker waving back toward the general area of the Enterprise pictures. The crews of the previous Enterprises were also carbon units. In what way is the life form in your vessel different? Carbon units are not true life forms... Do those images repre- sent how Enterprise has evolved into its present form? (hoping he's struck a responsive chord) Yes. Carbon units have clearly retarded Enterprise's proper evolvement. (controlling surprise) What is Enterprise's proper evolvement? Enterprise should not require the presence of carbon units. And with this she moves off, observing other Rec Deck objects. Decker moves with her; then: (carefully) Enterprise would be unable to function without carbon units. More data concerning this functioning is necessary before carbon units can be patterned for data storage. as he reacts to this ominous note; he stops abruptly. What does that mean? (stopping; almost pleasantly) When my examination is complete, the carbon units will be reduced to data patterns. This has been delivered with chilling blandness, and she stands facing Decker, almost as though waiting for him to thank her. He thinks fast now. Within you are memory patterns of a carbon unit. If can help you revive these patterns; you could understand our functions better. That is logical. You may procede. realizing the difficult task ahead; the pain he will suffer. The ship stationary in the chamber as now we an exterior hatch sliding fully open. Up through the hatch a circular airlock door opens -- and a tiny figure in a thruster spacesuit emerges, steps into space, slowly floats down through the hatch and under the Enterprise saucer section. In this and subsequent we will that on the rear pack of his thruster spacesuit is a which regularly the identifying of this particular suit. (By which Kirk will be able to see Spock's position even from several miles away.) the until the features behind the face mask are clearly identifiable: Spock, his face set in the same grim, determined expression, as he touches his spacesuit transmitter control. Computer, commence recording. Captain Kirk -- this message will detail my attempt to contact the aliens... Kirk crossing Uhura as she calls: Starfleet signals, sir, growing in strength... (listening intently) They -- have Intruder on their monitors -- it's decelerating -- powerfield cloud beginning to dissipate... Confirm, Captain. Lunar beacons indicate Intruder on a course into Earth orbit... (interrupting) Sir! Airlock four has been opened; a thruster suit is reported missing! (reacts knowingly) Spock...! (to navigator) Get a fix on his position! His features now set into an almost trance-like expres- sion as he concentrates on the thought emanations. Then we his head turn, he peers off -- then he moves his thruster controls. We the small blue jets of his thrusters -- his spacesuit figure begins to move off in the direction he was concentrating upon. His thrusters moving him across V'ger's vast chamber then dropping down into a deep "trough"-like area which stretches into the distance ahead of him. cloud of (Kirk's entrapment) become visible to one side but Spock passes them at some dis- tance and does not attract them. We can more clearly now the point on the inner wall of the trough toward which Spock is heading. It is an unusual combination of which seem to mark this point of the vessel as of some importance. (Here, also, we will become aware of "sensor-bee" swarms, intermittently darting toward this same wall from all points of the chamber.) Kirk in a thruster spacesuit, helmet being readied by McCoy is also here, arguing with Kirk: (from the start) ... don't want him stopped, Bones; want him to lead me to whatever's out there...! McCOY And if that 'whatever' has taken over his mind....? Then he'll have still led me to it, won't he? And Kirk steps into the airlock door, hits a control -- it begins sliding closed behind him. the circular airlock door as it slides open -- and Kirk's tiny spacesuited figure floats down clear of the saucer. his face through the spacesuit faceplate as he scans the darkness. Bridge, Captain. We make Spock as 26 Mark 345 degrees off ship's axis. During which, Kirk spots something. Spock's blinker at a mile or so distance, nearing V'ger's inner walls. have him in sight. During which, Kirk touches his thruster controls and blue thruster jet propels him off in the direction indicated. His thrusters come on for a longer period of time as he accelerates to the higher speed necessary to overtake Spock... The open, and "Ilia", McCoy and Decker entering. Then Chapel already inside, looking through some female adornments she's found there. remember Lt. Ilia once mentioning that she wore this... (reacting; tight) ... when we met. Clearly this is very painful to Decker. Meanwhile, Chapel hands the Deltan headband to "Ilia". (gently) Put it on. "Ilia" hasn't the slightest idea what to do with the headband, holds it, runs her fingers over the jewels and feathers embedded into it. Chapel takes it from her, places it on 'Ilia's" head, now switches on the light illuminating the dressing table mirror -- stands behind her with Decker, both watching apprehensively. studying her image in the mirror, her face totally blank a moment, but then breaking into a bemused frown -- as though trying to remember. And: (helpfully) Ilia... (quiet; urging) On Delta... remember...? And it seems that "Ilia" does remember. She peers at her image, then sets the headband into its exact proper position. Then she turns and looks at them with recognition. (haltingly) Dr. Chapel... as Chapel smiles, pleased, and looks at Decker who stares at "Ilia" nonplussed. This is Ilia coming alive! (to Decker) "Will..." And she touches his hand, runs her own hand over it, and smiles. Decker is completely overwhelmed, struggles for words and looks to McCoy for some kind of help. McCoy realizes Decker is losing himself in fantasy. McCOY (gently reminding) Commander... this is a mechanism... Decker is startled, and for another slit-second he's lost -- but then he realizes the reality, and what he should do: (gently; but urgingly) Ilia, help us make direct contact with V'ger... cannot. Decker looks at "Ilia's" hand still resting on his. Then: Then tell us who V'ger is; where he's from... need your help. For another moment "Ilia" continues smiling at Decker, holding his hand. Then, abruptly, the smile vanishes -- the hand is released. Clearly, she's again the probe, as: Why have two carbon units entered V'ger...? Decker glances at McCoy, who shakes his head almost imperceptibly: he doesn't know. But Decker has an obvious reply: They want to make contact with V'ger... (trying to revive "Ilia's" memory again; touches her hand) Ilia... "Ilia" peers at him blankly, allows him to continue touching her hand, but obviously it means nothing to her. (continuing; distressed, to "Ilia") Does V'ger object to the presence of the two carbon units? The carbon units are of no consequence; V'ger will determine their purpose. McCOY Their purpose is to survive. That is also V'ger's purpose. Decker's face reflects his bemusement: You said V'ger's purpose was to find and join with the Creator. That is how V'ger will survive. as now, the bemusement changes to just the slightest enlightenment. wish to continue my observations. Kirk but a small object, thruster jets occasionally spurting as he guides himself deeper into the trench as he continues forward progress in the direction he saw Spock taking. So we can his face (through the plate), as he looks ahead into the distance toward Spock. Spock's signal closer and Spock's tiny space- suited figure now becoming dimly visible as he moves steadily toward the of the inner wall. His attention fixed on Spock, he never notices until an instant too late an object; quickly he hits a thruster control, and we the turn him to the side as: swarm of strange-looking translucent crystal-like on a collision course with Kirk. They were traveling randomly, and are not deliberate ob- structions. However, Kirk's nearness now has attracted them and the swarm of them heads in his direction. Kirk tries to avoid them; he hits a second -- but he overcompensates, and spins straight into the intercepting swarm of them. as the nearest crystal forms adhering to Kirk's spacesuit. He hits full now, seems to make some escape, but still more forms adhere. Bridge...! All eyes anxiously on the main viewer. ... stand by, may be in trouble... Sulu hits the viewer magnification control. As the distant of Kirk's spacesuit are pulling Kirk into We can the details of the swarm of forms adhering. But we can that Kirk's spacesuit is now about half covered with them! Expressions of bridge crew to reflect the horror of what they're seeing as: Your phaser, Captain...! Use your phaser...! (transmitter, weak) Can't... reach... phas -- (transmission breaks off in heavy Airlocks two and four -- prepare to launch rescue teams! (glancing at viewer) Chief Lang! Get them out there! Fast! Mr. Spock, the Captain is in trouble, directly behind you -- three hundred meters! (beat) Mr. Spock! Looks of distress are exchanged. Spock's spacesuited figure the as we (weak; ... Spock...! ... need help...! ... trapped...! No indication at first that Spock has heard; his face set with determination, his eyes fixed on his destin- ation: the inner wall. (continuing; weakening; ... pressure on me...! ... can't move...! Spock...! as Kirk's -- and all that is heard now is the crackling ominously. Spock's expression flickers, then he hits reverse thruster stops -- he turns to glance at the inner wall, then his thrusters turn him so he can look back the way he came from. But he cannot resist Kirk's call; he suddenly hits his thruster controls, then and: as thruster accelerate him back toward Kirk. showing Kirk's spacesuit completely covered, encased in the blob. Kirk is no longer moving. But in the distance, facing toward him is Spock! with Spock in the near distance, heading the As he approaches Kirk, Spock brings out his phaser. Now he hits the controls for the -- he slows as he approaches Kirk's now complete- ly encased spacesuit. Spock makes a quick phaser adjustment. Spock levels the phaser carefully. The strikes the blob form -- it the pieces facing each other while hovering in space. Bridge, cancel rescue teams. (hard) Spock, what in the hell are you doing out here! am seeking answers, Captain. (with insight) Answers to what, Spock? Our dilemma -- or your personal one? Spock does not immediately reply, peers at Kirk through the faceplate a long beat, then abruptly looks away, points off into the distance: We can what appear to be darting toward the inner wall in the distance, then disappearing there. (We'll other swarms occasionally too, coming from different directions -- they will later be identified as "sensor swarms" on closer examination.) (pointing) Captain, believe there we will find an indication of whoever -- or whatever -- is aboard this vessel... Kirk weighs alternatives, then pushes his thruster controls and begins moving in the direction Spock indicated. Their thruster jets flash, propel them toward the point on the inner wall. The most prominent area of the vast inner wall -- the patterns on the wall here seem to with life. The spacesuited figures of Kirk and Spock gliding slowly toward what seems to be the central part of theses patterns. as they approach and then we the brief and then forward momentum stops; motionless. Then Spock sees something, indicates. Now, we that they are tiny, multi-colored points of -- almost like swarms of bees. They approach the inner wall at this central point and seem to "disappear" through the orifice. This "sensor swarm" has been coming from a direction that will take them close past Kirk and Spock. Then, as it passes, Spock reaches out quickly, grabs. He turns to Kirk, his hand closed on something. Spock opens his hand, retaining a hold on something with his fingers. He brings it up to Kirk's face mask -- it's a tiny its multi-colors flashing as it tries to escape from Spock's fingers. And in this we that this is a very much like the one we've seen earlier embedded in the Ilia-probe's throat hollow. Then Spock releases it and it darts to join the sensor swarm near the opening of the inner wall. From this closer distance, we that an opening ap- pears in the wall, admits the sensor swarm, then closes immediately. Kirk and Spock exchange a look. Their thruster ignite briefly, moving them in that direction. closely approaching the inner wall now, timing their movements to coincide with the arrival of another "swarm" -- the wall begins The "swarm" through, the wall begins -- but Spock and Kirk slip in before it closes. The wall closing behind them, they are safely inside. But as they stop their forward momentum, their eyes widen with awe and surprise at what they are seeing: The long "cave" chamber with its row of huge extending into the distance. To one side, the gleaming as Spock makes a quick analysis and estimate of what they are seeing. Then, he takes out his tricorder again, propels himself toward the memory crystals. Kirk follows. as Spock adjusts his tricorder through several readings. It would appear that the atomic arrays of these crystals store information. remarkably efficient system. (indicates) And these 'sensor-swarms' collect that data, carry it here. (nods; indicates) New crystals: they must contain the most recent data obtained -- And Spock touches one of these new crystals (it will be shinier, more pulsating than the others): but this time including a pattern-like image of Klingons, Klingon vessels (the ones destroyed by the Cloud), and obvious Starfleet personnel -- and the Epsilon 9 station. Also, a pattern of the Security Guard killed by the probe. And Ilia. Klingons... our Epsilon 9 station ... and Ilia!! They seem to be more than just images... (agreeing) Exact patterns. The energy bolt that hit them wasn't simply a weapon -- it dematerialized them, stored them. But why? And he turns and begins moving on, studying the wall, consulting his tricorder. Spock inspecting this area at which the "newer" crystals are and and which appears to be a termination of the Crystal area, continuing on and dis- appearing through the wall. If this is their ship's data banks, where is the crew? Or is their entire ship automated? Captain, do not believe there is a crew -- or that this is a vessel as such. beat, as Kirk reacts incredulously. (continuing) am almost certain now that all of this is V'ger -- believe that we are inside a life form, a living machine. Spock turns his spacesuit, turns his tricorder out to- ward the Mediator Balls, takes a reading in that di- rection. Then a glance to Kirk. must attempt mindmeld with it, Captain. Spock touches his spacesuit controls; the move him out toward the Mediator Balls. (warningly) Spock... Spock reaching the Ball, halts his momentum and removes one gauntlet, baring his hand. Stretching the bare hand toward a part of it which looks strangely "alive." The very power generated from this area is clearly affecting Spock's hand. Meanwhile, Kirk has used his to join him. Spock, if you're right, its mind may be enormous... But Spock pays him no attention, his entire being now focused on the of the "alive" area -- the Spock, as he forces his hand toward that surface, closer, closer. watching, almost mesmerized. Torn between wanting to pull Spock away from the wall -- and knowing that Spock must go through with it. For everyone's sake. preparing for the ordeal, moving his hand to the "liv- ing area," the invisible force even stronger -- but Spock's strength unwavering, and now he touches the surface -- and it at the touch. And at the same moment Spock' body convulses as if tens of thousands of volts of electricity are charging through him. as he begins to shudder with the shock, the as we Spock's mouth open -- he as we travel through (per Con Pederson discussion). Symbolizing V'ger's incredible and complex store of mechanistic knowledge, these suggest patterns of atoms, molecules, galaxies, dimensions of the universe beyond human knowledge or comprehension. It takes only fifteen or twenty seconds, but seems to span aeons, taking us through micro-infinity and macro-infinity. as he lies in a sickbay bed. His eyes are open; he is staring straight ahead as if in a catatonic state, completly unaware of his surroundings. Then Doctor Chapel leans moving a medical scanner over the brain area. Now scanning pons area at spinal nerve fiber connection... 319 McCOY 319 McCoy at a console, watching readings he is getting from Chapel's scanner. Kirk watches McCoy anxiously. McCOY Indications of some neurological trauma--the power pouring through that mind-meld must have been staggering... Before Kirk can reply, they a An abrupt, harsh, bitter laugh. as all whirl to the patient area where it is obviously Spock who has just laughed -- but there is no indication of laughter from him now. startled Chapel has stepped back away from the bed. Spock seems to be attempting to focus, orient himself as Kirk and McCoy hurry to the bedside. (quiet) Jim... And Spock reaches out a hand weakly., takes a surprised Kirk's hand in his. McCoy exchanges a surprised glance with Kirk, as Spock -- clutching Kirk's hand in friend- ship and need -- struggles to summon strength to speak. (continuing) This simple feeling... (looks at Kirk) ... is so far beyond V'ger's comprehension. with Kirk and McCoy exchanging another surprised glance (at Spock's emotion), with McCoy gesturing Kirk not to question it. (gently) Were you right? Spock? V'ger is a living machine...? (nodding) life form of its own; a conscious, living entity. (reacting) living machine...?! McCOY (to Chapel) We're living machines, too: protein mechanisms. Kirk nods at McCoy. And it considers the Enterprise a living machine: that's why the probe refers to our ship as an entity. If it thinks our ship is alive what does it think we are? McCOY (dryly) An 'infestation' -- bacteria... microbes. as Spock turns to Kirk. saw V'ger's planet: a planet populated by living machines. Unbelievable technology. (pained) V'ger has knowledge that spans this universe. And... in all this order... all this magnificence, V'ger feels no awe...no delight... no beauty... (a beat; exhausted) should have known... Kirk waits for Spock to continue, but Spock seems too weak. Know what, Spock? What? But Spock falls back, exhausted -- and McCoy gently tugs at Kirk, "Let him rest, Jim..." Kirk shrugs McCoy away, addresses Spock: (continuing) What should you have known? (weak) No meaning... No hope... (summoning strength) And, Jim, no answers...! Jim, it's looking for answers itself! What answers? 'Is this all am? Is there not more?' Just then an faint signal from Starfleet, sir! Intruder Cloud has been located on their outer monitors for past twenty-seven minutes... dissipating rapidly as it approaches. Immediately, Sulu's voice: Starfleet reports forward velocity has slowed to sub-warp speed! We are three minutes from Earth's orbit!- (into intercom) I'll be right there... (to Chapel; crisp) need Spock on the bridge. as Chapel urns to a an order, "Dalaphaline, twenty cc's..." As the Tech quickly sets the hypo-injector, and hands it to Chapel - and she injects Spock, the hypo emitting a fast, -- Kirk gazes at Spock just an instant as Spock breathes deeply, the drug clearly strengthening him. Chapel and the Tech help Spock from the bed, as Kirk addresses McCoy: machine planet...? Sending a machine to Earth looking for its Creator...? McCOY God. Kirk looks at him, then at Spock -- on his feet now -- then at McCoy again: 'To find the Creator,' the probe said. Find God...? McCOY Isn't that what we're all trying to do...? (dryly) All us machines...? Kirk stands facing him another moment, then whirls and steps to the monitor, flips some buttons, and peaks into his communicator. Mr. Chekov, Commander Decker's present location? He... they... are in Engineering, sir. (into intercom) want to make a ship's announcement. But it's to be heard only in Engineering. Ready, Captain. (voice amplified) This is the Captain speaking. It appears that the alien ship... V'ger... is a manned vessel... Scott (at his console) listening to Kirk's words -- and facing Decker and "Ilia" who are just about to leave Engineering. (In b.g. the Engine core the appropriate color, and there is a of Kirk's continues: (amplified) It is a living entity...! machine life form. We are attempting to ascertain its intentions. All personnel will maintain yellow alert status! The probe bland as usual, but Kirk's words seem to have strangely elated Decker; he says to her: machine...! Then it had to be programmed. By whom...? By the Creator. (probing) To join, and become One with the Creator? To learn all that is learnable; to deliver all collected data to the Creator on the third planet. That is the programming. just now confronting them, regarding "Ilia" with open disapproval. Well, sir, now what about all that? living entity, the Captain says... entity... living thing...! Decker really hasn't heard Scott; he's gazing at "Ilia," attempting to digest what she's just said. But quickly: Thank you, Scotty... He moves to leave. (dourly) Your welcome, sir. Now Decker and "Ilia" move toward the exit, Scott gaz- ing after them glaringly, watching "Ilia's" every move. Suddenly, almost into the corridor, "Ilia" turns and looks back at the engine room. She addresses Decker, but load enough for Scott to overhear: There is no logical reason for carbon units to control Enterprise's power systems. (to "Ilia") Lassie, if were functioning 'logically,' right now I'd be showing you the inside of our scrap metal compactor! Kirk with McCoy and Spock, who although somewhat shaky, is clearly more alert. They are just assuming their stations. We're now locked into Starfleet's transceivers; Admiral Nogura has received your reports, sir. Kirk pausing halfway to his chair to study the viewer on which is appearing an of V'ger looming omi- nously in orbit over Earth. The visual is a lunar monitor relay, sir. As they begin to study it, the suddenly distorts and is replaced by signal interference -- (Somewhat resembling the kind of high voltage interference some-times seen on the television screen.) (continuing) Heavy interference, sir -- it's coming from here, inside the intruder itself... Uhura hits buttons and immediately from the speakers we Spock looks up from his console, listens to it. Puzzling! The interference appears to be a rather simple carrier wave code signal... On an old style radio frequency, sir... as the doors snap open and Decker and "Ilia" appear. All eyes go to them as: (to Decker; interrupting) As stated, V'ger calls to the Creator. (nods; turns to Kirk) V'ger is announcing that it has arrived, sir -- that it's ready to deliver the information it was programmed to collect... 'To learn all that is learnable.' (to Kirk) It expects a return signal now, ordering it to transmit that information to the Creator. (whirling) Sir! V'ger's signals have stopped... (as if frightened) Decker... The Creator has not responded. Kirk hears this, turning inquiringly toward her, but Uhura interrupts: Picking up Starfleet again; a lunar monitor relay... as, indeed, the interference is fading and a new Main Viewer is appearing -- it shows with a strange looking moving away from V'ger. It is an ominous looking, -- it resembles the same green plasma-energy bolts that destroyed the Klingons and Epsilon 9 -- and very nearly the Enterprise. It is not a bolt now -- the mass is much larger and appears much more deadly. second object has now formed and moves off, a third one begins to appear. (Meanwhile, the first and second are moving off into the distance in different direction.) McCOY My God! They're the same kind of things that destroyed the Klingons, Epsilon Nine... (interrupting; from science console) These read as identical composition... (turns to Kirk) ... however, Captain, they measure several hundred times more powerful! High mag, Mr. Sulu! Sulu adjusts the viewer through several until we the huge more clearly. The third one is moving off too -- a fourth one is forming... (overlapping) Urgent signal from Starfleet, Captain! (turns, shaken) All Earth defense systems have gone dead. Kirk reacts hard at this. Uhura gets another message. (continuing) Sir, Starfleet computes their trajectories as moving toward equidistant positions over Earth. exchanging significant glances. From four equidistant positions, Captain, a detonation would blanket the entire surface of the planet. plot them as reaching equidistant positions in... twenty-nine minutes, sir... mark! as Kirk vaults from his chair, strides to a handrail to confront the "Ilia"-probe. Why...?! The carbon-units infection will now be removed from the Creator's planet. Why?! The Creator has not answered. The carbon-units are not responsible for that. You infest and control Enterprise. V'ger believes carbon-units interfere with the Creator in the same manner. (to Kirk) Then V'ger believes the Creator to be a machine too. (nods) It seems we all imagine God in our own image. Three of the four have all moved away from V'ger now, in different directions, growing smaller in the distance. The fourth object is holding position nearby, seeming to grow in size and intensity. as he throws a look toward Spock who is now in deep meditation. Kirk turns and takes "Ilia's" shoulders and carefully turns her to face him. McCOY '... similar life forms...?' Jim, V'ger's saying the Creator is a machine...! (grimly amused) Of course: we all create God in our own image. Kirk peers at Decker a moment, ingesting this thought. Then he addresses "Ilia" again, this time with emotion: after all, he is pleading for the survival of the entire planet: V'ger! If we are lesser beings, we are still, like you, living. And because we are alive, we -- like you -- wish to survive. You must not destroy -- Kirk pauses abruptly: "Ilia" is regarding him blandly, stonily -- not the slightest reaction or response; clearly Kirk's plea is being ignored. Kirk draws in his breath to continue, realizes the futility, turns helplessly to Spock. who has been listening intently, with near fascination -- an idea forming in his mind. Quickly, he steps down to Kirk: (quiet, terse) Captain... (reaches Kirk) Treat V'ger as you would... a child. startled at this, not sure he's heard correctly. Child...!? Yes, Captain, a child: evolving into adulthood -- learning, searching -- instinctively needing. (intrigued) Needing what...? McCOY Spock, this 'child' is about to eliminate all life on Earth; how do we teach it that that's 'wrong'? With a spanking...!? Spock peers at McCoy almost sadly, then replies to Decker. It doesn't know what it needs, Comm ander... (to Kirk) It does not know. Kirk says nothing, looks at Spock who is awaiting a reaction; then Kirk glances at "Ilia" -- his brain is racing, struggling to reach a decision. And then: (abruptly to "Ilia") The carbon--units-know-why-the Creator-has-not-responded. McCOY (shocked) Jim...! (to "Ilia," urgingly) Ilia... we can help V'ger find what it needs -- "Ilia" studies Decker just a bland beat, then turns to Kirk: (to Kirk, hard) Disclose the information. (cool, calm) Not until V'ger withdraws the devices orbiting the third planet. Kirk studies her a moment, then decides to press his bet: (to "Ilia," almost pleasant) No. (then to crew commandingly) Secure all stations. Clear the bridge. moment where all are startled at this order -- but no time for questions as just then the ship is within V'ger. (amplified) Bridge to all decks,secure your stations. McCOY Your child is having a tantrum, Spock. Clear the bridge, Captain...? That was the order, Mr. Sulu: Clear the bridge. Just then another -- the ship is rocked about by the furious powerfields -- with frightening displays of ray energy. as all react to the powerful blasts, holding on to railings, etc, at the same time attempting to secure their stations for the evacuation. The leaves his station, crossing to exit. (leaving bridge; to Captain) Severe stress on engine pylons, sir. (to Kirk; flat) V'ger requires the information. Kirk merely looks at her, then to the evacuating crew: Bridge secure all stations! Move out! McCOY Jim, what the hell kind of strategy is this...? Meanwhile, Decker has crossed to Chekov's now abandoned console, checks it. All ship's functions going to automatic, Captain. turning to confront "Ilia": If V'ger destroys the Enterprise, the information V'ger requires will also be destroyed. as outside perceptically recedes, and simul- taneously the At the same time, "Ilia" is saying: It is illogical to withhold required information. Kirk does not reply to this, turns away to observe the withdrawing crew. Most are out; only Spock, Decker and McCoy remain behind -- with McCoy on his way. The bridge lighting dims, and now Kirk looks at Spock, who nods approvingly; clearly Spock is the only person who seems to comprehend what Kirk is doing, and why. As Kirk now moves toward the exit, and the lights are dimmed even further: (almost polite) Kirk-unit, why do you not disclose information? Because V'ger is going to destroy all the carbon units on the third planet. They have repressed the Creator. The information will not be disclosed. And, gesturing the others ahead of him, Kirk starts toward the bridge elevator. "Ilia" calls after him: (almost a plea) V'ger needs the information. Decker and McCoy about to enter, Spock and Kirk just behind -- all stopping abruptly now at "Ilia's" state- ment. The very tone of her voice is enough for them to realize they have made a very telling point. Kirk follows fast: Then V'ger must withdraw its orbiting devices. V'ger will comply if the carbon units disclose the information. 341 McCOY 341 wryly reacting to this: McCOY It learns fast, doesn't it...? 342 McCOY 342 as Kirk looks at Spock, Kirk's whole expression convey- ing the obvious question: "What the hell do we do now?" But Spock is ready with an answer: Captain, the vessel -- V'ger -- obviously operates from a central brain complex... Spock allows the sentence to hang, as he and Kirk eye each other significantly, the so we can perceive that to Kirk this idea has an even greater significance. (to Spock) The orbiting devices would be controlled from the point, then...? Precisely. Kirk nods grimly, faces "Ilia" again; this time he's playing for all the stakes. The carbon units' information cannot be disclosed to V'ger's probe... only to V'ger directly. all wait with hushed expectancy, all eyes on "Ilia" who seems momentarily in some internal communication. She turns away from Kirk and steps forward looking at the Main Viewer. McCOY (indicating viewer) Jim...! the image of the chamber in which the Enterprise is imprisoned. But now, toward the chamber-end, where further passage had previously been barred by the lace- work energy barriers -- an And at the same time there is a and: Forward motion, Captain...! tractor beam... "Ilia" steps down from the platform and into the well where she is closer to the viewer. Captain, what's the next move? The question is, Mr. Decker, is there a next move... moving through the chamber, pulled by the invisible tractor beam, toward the -- toward the next chamber which, from this seems even larger, more forbidding. as the four officers step down onto the bridge, Spock hurrying to his science station, Kirk to the center seat. Resume duty stations, Mr. Decker. As Kirk attends to his console, Deck is at an intercom: (into intercom, voice amplified) All personnel resume stations...! At the same time the lights are brightening -- and members of the bridge crew begin returning. All this time there is an ever increasing sense of movement. Kirk glances at Decker: Well, Mr. Decker, it seems my bluff is being called. I'm afraid our hand is pretty weak, Captain. (slight smile) But it's the only game in town. Kirk reacts, pleased, a split beat at Decker's "our" hand, and goes on: Kirk throws him a look of appreciation, then, abruptly his manner changes as he addresses Chekov: Mr. Chekov, when do those devices activate? They reach final position in... Twenty-seven minutes -- mark. (a beat; then into intercom) Engineering... at his console, a female engineering technician nearby, the usual engine room ambience in the b.g., as: Scott, here, sir. as Kirk hesitates, glances around at the crew -- now all having resumed their stations -- and then grimly looks at "Ilia" who still remains at the rail. (into intercom, eyes on "Ilia") Mr. Scott, be prepared to execute Starfleet order two zero zero five. Hearing this, Spock whirls around -- peers incredulously at Kirk. He appears for a moment to be incensed at Kirk's words. Then he realizes and understands Kirk's position and turns, sadly resigned, back to his work. as Scott, too, hears this, but his reaction is of grim acceptance. Not so Chief Ross; she is horrified. (with a glance at Ross, into intercom) When, Captain? On my command. (somberly, into intercom) Aye, sir. And Scott hits buttons on his console, now moves to step from his station, nearly collides with Ross, who clearly is bravely struggling to maintain her poise and dignity: Why has the Captain ordered self- destruct, sir? (a beat; gently) would say, lass, because he thinks -- he hopes -- that when we go up... we'll take V'ger with us. Will we? (with grim satisfaction) When that much matter and anti- matter are brought together? Oh, yes; we will, indeed. The ship passing now through a chamber that is vastly more active than anything we have previously seen. Directly ahead appears to be an area that dispatches powerfields; a tremendous volume of them seem to ema- nate and converge there. The medium from which the ship moves appears almost solid, to the point where it seems incredible that the ship can be pulled through it at all. The entire chamber pulses with machine- like, alien life. This should even be evidenced in the booming as they course in ever more frighteningly close proximity to the ship as: The crew all watching the awesome spectacle of V'ger's interior (on the viewer) as the Enterprise is being pulled toward the brain complex. All are somewhat sub- dued, for all realize how their journey will end -- but at the same time they also realize there is no other way. The catching facial reactions -- as, in the b.g., we a constant flow of crew comments: Twenty-five minutes to device activation, sir. (Twenty-two) (Eighteen) Starfleet has been apprised of our situation, Captain. Tractor beam remains constant... We are seventeen kilometers inside the vessel... His back to the viewer, the angle does not reveal his facial features, but we can discern him struggling to contain his feelings. 352 McCOY, 352 Kirk's back to Spock as he watches the viewer, Kirk now turning toward Spock. Spock... Spock... Spock does not respond, then Kirk reacts with momentary annoyance, then realizes Spock is totally distracted. Kirk peers at him a moment, then suddenly rises and steps up to: 353 - (McCOY 353 as Kirk arrives, with Spock still facing away from him, clearly distracted. (starts) Mr. Spock -- think... Spock moves to face him, turning fully the so we can see now, just under Spock's eye: tear! Welling fom the eye, rolling down his cheek. Kirk is speechless a moment, glances at McCoy who has also witnessed this phenomenon, and started toward Spock; but Kirk gestures McCoy to stay back, as he addresses Spock: (quiet, feeling) Not for us? No, Captain, not for us... for V'ger. Spock pauses as Kirk peers incredulously at him, then continues: (continuing) weep for V'ger, as would for a brother -- far more knowledgeable than -- and yet one step behind. 354 McCOY 354 Listening, McCoy's face reflecting concern; Decker's face compassion and understanding, with Decker step- ping closer to Spock, as Spock continues: As was -- when came aboard... so is V'ger now: empty, incomplete. Searching. Logic and knowledge are not enough. McCOY (with empathy) Spock, are you saying that you found, what you needed -- but V'ger hasn't? Has not, Doctor -- and now, because of what we are planning... will not... (almost hard) There is no alternative. (gently pressing) Mr. Spock, what would V'ger need to fulfill itself? V'ger has begun to understand the true limits of our universe, thereby realizing the existence of other dimensions. To fulfill itself it must evolve to a higher dimension; V'ger believes this can be achieved only by joining with the Creator. Each of us, at some time in our life, turns to someone, a father, a brother, a God and asks 'Why am here?' 'What was meant to be?' V'ger hopes to touch its Creator to find its answers. as Decker reacts with sudden, almost evangelical en- lightenment, as Kirk Says: (understanding) 'Is this all that am? Is there nothing more? reacting to the viewer, a terse: Captain...! where another opening is suddenly visible -- another chamber. But the violent and color energy effects of the previous chambers are no longer evident. Instead, the entire chamber appears beautifully symmetrical, with a strange, subdued glow, which increases as we move closer. (flat) Captain, believe that is our destination. This enormous chamber resembles a hemisphere, laced throughout with dazzling energy patterns, not at all ominous, but quite lovely in effect. As the Enterprise continues forward motion, now ahead you will to a small "island." Floating in the exact center of the hemisphere, the "island" seems alive with with more of the lovely and delicate and On the "island," vague at this distance, ap pears to be a "solid" matter form. The "island" looming larger in the distance. And the Enterprise (as evidenced from the viewer) perceptibly slowing. Kirk just resuming his command chair, as: Forward motion slowing, Captain...! Kirk says nothing a moment, studies the viewer -- and then: (into intercom) Engineering... Status, Mr. Scott? (somber) We're ready, sir. (into intercom) Thank you, Scotty. Stand by. 358 McCOY 358 as Kirk turns from the intercom and glances at McCoy. Between them a total look of understanding. The Enterprise approaching the edge of the "island" -- slowing, but still quite clearly being pulled by the tractor beam. The "solid matter" in the "island" cen- ter still obscured by the emanating from that area. The Enterprise is now nearly at the "island" edge. as all watching "island" loom closer and closer. Tractor beam strength lessening, Captain. (into intercom) Mr. Scott... on my next signal. (fast) Captain, the orbital device will not be triggered for twenty-two (nineteen...) minutes... (fifteen...) The point... (Your) (eying "Ilia"; carefully) The point is, Captain, twenty-two should minutes. We could have that much loop "19" & more time... "15") Kirk glances at the Viewer, the oncoming "island," then at Spock: (shakes head, no) "19",) (Mr. Spock), if we do not provide ( "15 ) V'ger with certain information, we won't have twenty-two seconds; the plan must be implemented upon arrival. Captain, we can't be sure that our... move... will actually save Earth. No! Decker's last word is interrupted by an almost gentle -- and on the Viewer all perceptible motion has stopped. At the same time: Forward motion stopped, Captain. Tractor beam is released. The ship's sauce leading edge holding position at the "island" edge as though docked. watching the Viewer. (indicating viewer) V'ger... all very silent a moment, gazing at the sight. Now Kirk glances at the people around him: on his command their lives are about to end. Nothing is said; no time for it, no inclination to articulate the obvious. No need to. (into intercom: with finality) Mr. Scott... reacting to a console reading with surprise. Captain... read an oxygen and gravity envelope forming outside the Enterprise...! Sir, have located the source of V'ger's radio signal: (it's) directly ahead. That transmitter is a vital link between V'ger and the Creator. (its) (urging) "18",) We have twenty-one minutes. Captain, (.... "14" ) we can still save V'ger... and ourselves. All this has caused Kirk to vacillate, but he still believes his course of action is the proper one, as:- The carbon units will now provide V'ger the required information. "Ilia" is moving toward the elevator, turning to face the others as she says this. Kirk remains frozen, his hand on the intercom button. He glances at McCoy, as though seeking advice. McCoy peers at him blandly, levelly; Kirk must follow his own instinct. gazing at "Ilia," then at Spock, his brain racing, con- sidering all the possibilities, options. He glances at the anxious faces awaiting his decision: a possible twenty-two more minutes of life -- or instant death. Another beat as he decides. Then: (into intercom) Mr. Scott... we're holding off; there may be a chance... (rises, gestures Spock and McCoy) Spock, Bones... He starts for elevator. as Kirk strides toward the elevator, joining McCoy and Spock. Mr. Decker... will contact you every five minutes. Otherwise... inform Mr. Scott immediately. (calls after him) Captain... I'd like to go along... Kirk studies Decker a beat -- there is something com- pelling about Decker's manner -- a certain sense of absolute necessity. Kirk seems about to deny the re- quest, then turns to Sulu: Mr. Sulu, you have the conn... And Kirk leaves; Decker, his face reflecting a strange, almost eager gratification, hurries after him. V'ger plans to literally meld to reduce both itself and the Creator to patterns... ... and then to reassemble itself combined with the Creator. The most certain way of obtaining all the Creator's answers. sudden In the midst of it, Kirk finds a very much centering on him. He sees "Ilia" watching him with none of their "former navigator" in her expression now. Kirk hesitates, gathering his thoughts: (to "Ilia") Our data is being prepared. Answer! We will answer and present proof of our answer when it is ready! Kirk's words lead to a suggestion of in the around them. (continuing) V'ger, we will bring the Creator to you! Here! as he moves to her: We need only a few more minutes. Believe me... Decker has reached out to touch her -- the probe spins at his touch -- the move knocks Decker from his feet, tumbling, a hard fall. Then the robe looks at him lying there -- just the slightest softening of her features now. slowly turning to face the probe again. Ilia, believe me... the Creator will appear! as she meets Decker's look, her expression softening still more. The and begins to subside a bit. She moves to him and he gets to his feet. Enterprise to Captain... Uhura with Sulu and Chekov there. Problem, Captain: the response signal is not in our records. Voyager Six was sent out by Earth's "United States Subdivision.' The code was probably... as Uhura continues: ... kept secret to keep Voyager's data from rival subdivisions. McCOY That's preposterous! They wouldn't have kept scientific data from one another. We are now checking with Starfleet Archives, Captain. Stand by. Kirk, Spock and McCoy are standing some distance from them (out of hearing). The probe is clearly moving into still closer touch with Lt. Ilia's memory patterns as Decker takes her hand. And when V'ger melds? What will happen to you? It will... take me from you... 373 McCOY 373 McCoy is looking at Kirk with an incredulous expression on his face. McCOY And when it realizes what the Creator is...? There's no way to know. V'ger expected it to be a machine -- some single entity. (indicates entire site) All of us here may be reduced into patterns... That seems to be what it has planned -- to have the Creator physically present here. McCOY (small smile) The God it captures is going to be a hell of a disappointment. at the side of Voyager Six, Decker in the midst of twisting a wing-nut which releases a hatch which swings open. Decker peers inside while "Ilia" waits. 375 McCOY 375 Decker and "Ilia" at the old capsule in b.g. as Kirk looks that way. Commander... We Decker look up at Kirk's call, then ignore him and go back to inspecting inside the access hatch. At this moment, from Kirk's communicator, a (continuing; into communicator) Kirk here. We now have the response code, sir. Stand by. Transmit it on my orders. The three of them exchange looks -- Kirk, Spock and McCoy exchanging a silent moment of friendship and resignation. Then Kirk lifts his communicator again: (continuing) Enterprise... transmit. catching Decker in the midst of pressing a control on his tricorder. Both he and "Ilia" are watching Kirk and the others closely. Now Decker looks down at the tricorder's face. He nods: Recording... 377 McCOY 377 still waiting. They continue to wait. McCoy shifts uncomfortably, throws Kirk a puzzled glance. Kirk finally lifts his communicator. Enterprise, are you transmitting? Affirmative, Captain. For some time now. Confirm code and transmitting frequency. Both signal and frequency confirmed, sir. (calling) Captain Kirk! as the others turn to Decker and "Ilia." (continuing) The fault is here, sir, not in the transmission. (indicating into hatch) The antenna leads have been disconnected. V'ger never intended to accept a transmitted signal. Capture God! In order to retrieve V'ger's data, the Creator has to physically come here!... And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this... (indicates into access) ... point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder playback. (lifting communicator) Enterprise, want that signal again. Transmit! Then Kirk touches a control on his tricorder exactly as Decker did earlier. Then he looks up, reacts as he sees Decker holding his own tricorder up -- and a smile playing on Decker's face. as Kirk suddenly pivots, races toward Decker -- but he passes too close to the "Ilia"-probe. It sends him spinning back, tumbling to his knees. as starts up to scramble to his feet but Spock has stepped in, putting a hand on Kirk's shoulder and re straining him. Jim... he wants it. You got the Enterprise, it's what you wanted. This is what want. (smiles) But, Jim... (now very seriously) ... I'm the right choice for this mission. And then Decker shoves the tricorder into the access hatch. For just an instant nothing happens -- and then a Decker. The color becomes begins spiraling through the room. "Ilia" stes toward Decker, is caught in the and instantly in a We Decker seeming to grow larger -- as if his molecular pattern is expanding. enveloping the entire area. All this emanating from Decker's body, becoming -- also until now it is almost transparent. And the now expanding in all directions, and the room itself starting to dissolve, vanishing into nothingness -- and all commencing to slip into the new dimension. Kirk, Spock and McCoy stand transfixed another instant. Around them, V'ger seems to be They all turn and race into the complex in the direction of their vessel. It too seems to be flowering into loveliness, brilliant, graceful patterns as they seem to slip through to another dimension, vanishing. The now spreading outward, V'ger's massive shape becoming a spiraling pattern of twisting, graceful shapes and brilliant colors -- a transcendence into another dimension. And then all of that is left is a shimmering, jewel-like point of light -- and then it too fades -- and reveals there in the blue-black of space, the Enterprise. which shows now only space and its familiar star patterns. All gaze at the viewer, awed at what they've seen and undergone. They exchange looks silently, no one wanting to be the first to try to comment on some- thing which is beyond mere words. We an Scott and Chapel the bridge and stand silently watching. McCOY Well, it certainly has been... interesting. Spock, we were its answer! (nods) Yes, Captain. It needed our mortality, the fear of it, our struggle against it, our fears, our dreams... ... and the 'foolish' emotions which drive us? (looks at Kirk; then) prefer your poet Dante's phrase -- 'the divine restlessness of the human spirit.' McCOY Spock... you're quoting poetry? Spock's cold look at McCoy is interrupted by: Starfleet signal, Captain! Return to orbital dockyard for inspection. Ignore that signal. (to Scott) Shall we give the Enterprise a proper shakedown, Mr. Scott? (suddenly beaming) I'd say it's time for that, would, sir. (toward Spock) We can have you back on Vulcan in four days, Mr. Spock. (coolly) have no business on Vulcan, Engineer. Kirk and Spock exchange a look -- then Kirk turns to the helm. Ahead Warp One, Mr. Sulu. Heading, sir? (taking center seat; indicates generally) Out there. Thataway. (nods gravely) most logical choice, Captain. Then the trace of a smile comes over Spock's face. Planet Earth in the distance, and receding in size as the starship heads out the other direction. Star Trek: The Motion Picture : Gene Roddenberry Harold Li