3: George Lucas 1 long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the Main Title, followed by a rollup, which crawls into infinity. War! The Republic is crumbling under attacks by the ruthless Sith Lord, Count Dooku. There are heroes on both sides. Evil is everywhere. In a stunning move, the fiendish droid leader, General Grievous, has swept into the Republic capital and kidnapped Chancellor Palpatine, leader of the Galactic Senate. As the Separatist Droid Army attempts to flee the besieged capital with their valuable hostage, two Jedi Knights lead a desperate mission to rescue the captive Chancellor. . . . to reveal a Continue to with the Cruiser as enter and head toward an enemy Battle Cruiser. with the Jedi Fighters as they maneuver in unison, dodging flack and enemy laser fire. is on Anakin's ship. is on Obi-Wan's ship. giant space battle is revealed as the tiny Jedi ships continue their assault in a synchronous ballet. 2 bounces through the flack with a frown. His ship rocks violently. 3 smiles as he blasts a There isn't a droid made that can out fly you, Master, and no other way to get to the Chancellor . . . Look out, four droids inbound . . . 4 The swerve in unison as attack. After several clever moves by the Jedi, two of the collide with each other in a ball of flame. 5 struggles to maintain control of his ship. We've got to split them up. Break left, fly through the guns on that tower. flies to the left of a huge tower on a The follow. Easy for you to say . . . why am always the bait? Don't worry. I'm coming around behind you. deftly maneuvers around a large Starship's superstructure, but the stay on his tail, him with intense laser fire. Anakin, they're all over me! Dead ahead! Closing . . . lock onto him, Artoo . . . his reply as swoops in for the kill. one of the It (continuing, laughs) We got him, Artoo! away at the second as an angry warning. copy, Artoo. I'm going down on the deck. Good idea ... need some room to maneuver. dives toward the surface of one of the larger and is forced to fly through a maelstrom of laser flack. He skims the surface, followed by the which is followed by (continuing) Cut right. Do you hear me?! Cut right. Don't let him get a handle on you. Come on, Artoo, lock on! Lock on! The crosshairs merge on the Hurry up! don't like this! flies through a narrow gap between two towers on a Battleship. The hits one of Obi-Wan's wings with a laser blast, and parts of the ship go flying around Obi-Wan's Astro Droid, (continuing) Ouch! a blue streak. (continuing) Don't even try to fix it, Arfour. I've shut it down. We're locked on ... we've got him . . . drops in behind the and blows him apart. with delight. (continuing) Yeah! We got him . . . good going, Artoo. Next time you're the bait . . . Now let's find the Command Ship and get on with it ... a blue streak. Lock onto them, Artoo. Master, General Grievous's ship is directly ahead. a reply, and it reads out in Anakin's cockpit. (continuing) The one crawling with vulture droids. 6 see it. Oh, this is going to be easy. Ahead is a with batlike stalking around on the hull. The transform into flight configuration, lift off the and attack the Come on, Master. Not this time. There's too much at stake. We need help. Odd Ball, do you copy? Copy, Red Leader. Mark my position and form your squad up behind me . . . 7 We're on your tail, General Kenobi. Set S-foils in attack position. The protective ray shield lowers on the main hangar of the and six new emerge and join the heading toward the Jedi. The extend the stability foils on the ends of their wings. 8 This is where the fun begins. Ten Vulture Droids straight ahead, coming down the left side. a worried message. Add five Tri-fighters on the right . . . I'm going head to head. See you. Take it easy, Anakin. Four Clone Fighters move into formation behind the Jedi. I'm on your right, Red Leader. Incoming!! as five pass by at high speed on the right. Five more on the right! Four more pass at high speed from the left. All hell breaks loose. and continue to fly in unison, backing up each other. Here we go. The Jedi ships split up and make a quick loop around the ending up behind them. away. The I'm going high and right. Hang on. There are four more of them. Stay with me . . . swing back and right . . . help me engage. Back off ... Let them pass between us. I'm coming around. I'm coming around on your tail. All right, engage . . . and hurry. These droids are all over me like a rash. In one incredible move, swings in behind the blowing them away one by one until there is only one left. lets out a as accelerates past the last slams on his brakes, flips the Fighter around, and the Fighter from the front. frantically as they fly through the debris of the destroyed ships. looks behind him. How many back there. Artoo? (Artoo beeps) Three . . . (continuing) Four . . . that's not good. Anakin, you have four on your tail. know. know! Four more closing from your left. know. know! Break right and go high. I'm going low and left. Obi-Wan shakes his head. (to himself) He still has much to learn. swoops low and skims across a dodging flack as bounces along, trying to get out a sentence. Hang on, Artoo. Obi-Wan, do you copy? I'm going to pull them through the needle . . . Too dangerous. First Jedi rule: "Survive." Sorry, no choice. Come down here and thin them out a little. drops in behind the chasing Anakin. to Just keep me steady . . . hold on ... not yet. . . now break left. fires as he swings across the back of the four of them away. heads for a trench along the surface of one of the Trade Federation Battleships. He flies into the trench, which ends in a conning tower with a small slit between two main struts. (continuing) You'll never get through there, Anakin. It's too tight. nervously. Easy, Artoo . . . we've done this before. Use the Force, think yourself through, the ship will follow. in a panic. On the view screen Artoo's squeal reads out, Wrong thought, Artoo. slips through the narrow gap. The trailing (continuing) I'm through. continues to fire on the driving them into the fighter is hit and explodes, spewing debris. The spins off into space. Finally, peels off and swings around, pulling up alongside battles the There are too many of them. 2: I'm on your wing. Break left. Break left. They're all over me. Get them off my . . . I'm going to go help them out! No, no! They are doing their job so we can do ours. Head for the Command Ship! Another fighter is hit, bursts into flames, and spins off into space. raises its head to locate its target and fires missiles at them. Missiles! Pull up! and break right and left, and the missiles follow them. does a barrel roll spin, causing the missiles following him to collide and Two missiles continue to chase He banks sharply to the right, then to the left, causing one of the missiles to overshoot. They overshot us . . . The second missile streaks next to Obi-Wan’s Fighter and Obi-Wan's ship rocks, and as the Starfighter rips through the explosion. Debris flies all around them. They're coming around! All right, Arfour. No, no. Nothing too fancy. Surge all power units. Artoo! Stand by the reverse thrusters. spins his starfighter. The missiles spin and collide. We got 'em. Artoo! Two missiles continue to track Obi-Wan. Flying is for droids. Suddenly, shudders, and his ship starts to plummet toward the surface of the Trade Federation Cruiser. The trailing missiles fly into what looks like debris, and detonate. Five silver balls fly out of the debris and attach themselves to the ship. The balls pop open, revealing that begin to crawl across the surface like spiders. (continuing) I'm hit! Anakin? see them . . . Buzz Droids. The crawl across Obi-Wan's ship and start to tear it apart. where the break into the wiring. One of the goes after Arfour, be careful. You have one . . . ARFOUR's head gets ripped off and flies away. Oh dear. They're shutting down all the controls. Move to the right so can get a clear shot at them. The mission. Get to the Command Ship. Get the Chancellor! I'm running out of tricks here. moves into position just off Obi-Wan's left side and angles his ship so his guns are pointing at the crawling over Obi-Wan’s Starfighter. fires and vaporizes the along with the left wing of Obi-Wan's ship. (continuing) In the name of ... Steady . . . steady . . . Anakin, hold your fire . . . hold your fire. You're not helping here. agree, bad idea. Swing right . . . ease over . . . steady . . . Wait . . . wait . . . can't see a thing! My cockpit's fogging. They're all over me, Anakin. Move to the right. Hold on, Anakin. You're going to get us both killed! Get out of here. There's nothing more you can do. I'm not leaving without you, Master. moves his ship next to OBI-WAN's and tries to physically knock the off. There are five left. He manages to get one off, but badly dents OBI-WAN's ship in the process. One of the tears apiece off of the front of Obi-Wan's ship. Flames burst out, and more smoke billows out, obscuring the Jedi's view. knocks off three of the and the fourth crawls out onto Anakin's ship and starts attacking fights the Blast it ... can't see . . . my controls are gone. Get 'em, Artoo. Watch out! Artoo, hit the buzz droid's center eye. extends an arm and aims a stream of electricity at the swerving The is hit squarely in the eye and falls off the ship. Yeah, you got him! Great, Artoo. Stay on my wing . . . the General's Command Ship is dead ahead. Easy . . . pull up ... Head for the hangar. Have you noticed the shields are still up? Oh?!? Sorry, Master. streaks ahead of OBI-WAN's disintegrating Jedi Fighter and blasts the shield generator. It and Oh, have a bad feeling about this. 9 The shield door drops away, and crashes on the deck of the hangar bay, engulfed in a set of blast doors starts shut across the hangar opening, as material is sucked into space. maneuvers around the oncoming junk and flies into the hangar just as the blast doors shut. ignites his light saber and cuts his way out of the cockpit. He jumps dear just as his ship rush at him from all directions. jumps out of his ship and cuts his way through the to where is fighting. pops out of the ship and follows Artoo, locate the Chancellor. Tap into the ship's computers. They cut down the last of the droids and follow over to a computer wall socket. The two fight off as tries to find the Chancellor. Finally, a of the Trade Federation ship appears. The Chancellor's signal is coming from right there. The observation platform at the top of that spire. sense Count Dooku . . . sense a trap. Next move? Spring the trap. The start to leave; follows. The stop and turn to Artoo, go back. need you to stay with the ship. Here, take this, and wait for orders. tosses the comlink to 10 enters the bridge of the cruiser followed by his He walks to the front of the bridge and stands in front of the What's the situation, Captain? Jedi have landed in the main hangar bay. Just as Count Dooku predicted. 11 and head for the elevator. door opens in the hallway and two of GRIEVOUS's confront the General Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker. We've been waiting for you. We are here to relieve you of Chancellor Palpatine, not join him. As a dozen more droids join the group, the ignite their lightsabers and stand back-to-back. Anakin. . . Ready. and use their lightsabers and cut a large circle in the floor. 12 The cut their way down several floors into a large generator room. Huge outside the ship have caused several large pipes overhead to break, and fluid is spewing everywhere. The Jedi get up and turn off their light sabers. dips his hand into the fluid and sniffs it. . . . fuel. The slightest charge from our sabers will send this ship into oblivion. That's why they've stopped shooting. Well then, we're safe for the time being. Your idea of safe is not the same as mine. They run, rattle the ship, and pipes continue to burst around them, spilling more fuel into the hallway. At the far end, drop into the fuel. The throughout the hallway. They pass several large power generators, which are topped with excess power dischargers. They're sealing this section off. Six droids coming our way! The last of the in the distance. Keep moving. There must be vents . . . This way. They move along a wall. climbs up the side to a small vent. The fuel gets closer to the dischargers. We'll never get through that. It's too small! They move toward a second vent. is swimming in the fuel as it reaches to within a couple yards of the ceiling. feels along the ceiling and finds another smaller vent. He closes his eyes and tries to sense an opening, then he moves on. is forced into hand-to-hand combat with one of the It pulls the Jedi under the fuel. Just before he is about to drown, disables the by pushing him into an exhaust pipe. The fuel is up to the Jedi's chins. finds a very, very small metal grate, then pounds on it until the tiny grate breaks loose. found our escape vent. Anakin, this is no time for jokes. We're in serious trouble here. Only in your mind. My Master. Look, no structure. . . . grabs the side of the tiny hole and gives it a big yank, ripping a large panel loose revealing a "man-sized" work shaft. They scramble through it as the swim closer. 13 The pull themselves through the narrow vent shaft until they reach a small hatch in the side of the tube. Here's a way out. As the reach the opening in the ceiling and the fuel gets to within a few feet of the power generator sparks, the work the keyboard on the pressure lock, opening the latch. 14 The climb into a small passageway and slam the hatch shut. They make their way through the ever-shrinking shaft until they reach the end. 15 hatch opens in one of the main hallways of the Trade Federation Cruiser, and the squeeze out, the hatch. Behind them, seals the hatch with his laser sword. That won't hold when the fuel hits those power dischargers. The blast will break the hull. This side's pressurized. You still have much to learn, Anakin. 16 The climb up the vent shaft. and wait in the generator room as the fuel continues to rise toward the power discharger. have a bad feeling about this. 17 The fuel hits the power discharger, and there is a 18 and a flaming gas cloud spray out of the side of the Federation Cruiser. 19 large bulge appears in the wall around the sealed hatch as the hits. jumps back, then stands amazed. All right, you win. have much to learn. Let's go! grins at and they run down the hallway. 20 The two wait for an elevator to arrive. They turn around and see they are face to face with The start blasting away. Anakin deflects the bolts. frantically pushes the elevator button several more times. Destroyers!! Finally the door opens, and they rush inside under a hail of laser bolts. The elevator door slides shut. The turn to see standing behind them. Drop your weapons! said drop 'em. The activate their light sabers and destroy all the 21 notices two entering the hangar. He moves and hides behind a Jedi Starfighter. 22 The elevator begins to move and screeches to a stop. Did you press the stop button? No, did you? No! Well, there's more than one way out of here. ignites his laser sword. We don't want to get out, we want to get moving. Artoo . . . Artoo. Do you copy? Activate elevator . . . (looks at control panel) . . . 31174 . . . cuts a hole in the elevator ceiling. 23 are inspecting the Jedi starfighters. They overhear Obi-Wan's voice over the comlink and are distracted. 1: What's that? 2: Get back to work. It's nothing. 24 Artoo? climbs through the hole in the ceiling of the elevator. (continuing) Always on the move. continues to talk on the comlink. Artoo quietly beeps a reply. 25 tries to muffle the comlink as the try to figure out where the voices are coming from. extends an arm and plugs into a computer interface. Artoo, switch on the comlink. Artoo, do you hear me? Artoo, we gave you a job to do! Artoo. 26 Suddenly, the elevator plummets down the shaft. quickly jumps and grabs onto the hallway entry door. He watches as the elevator recedes down the shaft and disappears. struggles to keep his grip on the closed door as wires rain down on him. 27 The elevator starts to descend rapidly. Stop, stop! Artoo, we need to be going up. 28 Anakin struggles to hang on to the narrow edge of the elevator shaft. The door to the elevator shaft is pried open, and appear in the doorway and look down at They point their guns at him. 1: Hands up, Jedi! Don't move. 2: Roger, roger. 29 The overhear OBI-WAN's comlink messages to 1: There it is again. Artoo, do you copy? Artoo, do you hear me? Artoo, we need to be going up, not down. 30 The elevator races down as holds on. Stop. Artoo! We need to go up! Stop, stop! The elevator stops with a jolt. falls to the floor. 31 The see and walk toward the little droid. 1: Hey you! plugs into the interface again and the elevator shoots up. 32 stands up after having fallen in the elevator. Now, that's better . . . 33 is held up by who chuckle as the little Astro Droid curses and swings at them. 1: You stupid little astro droid! 34 looks down and sees the elevator heading toward him at a high rate of speed. He looks at the leaning over him with their guns pointed at him. He calculates for a moment, then gives himself a push and flips himself up into the elevator shaft. Before can arc into a descent down the shaft, the elevator races up through the shaft, cutting the in two. lands on the elevator and quickly drops back through the hole in the ceiling. is startled and ignites his lightsaber. Oh, it's you . . . 35 activates his oil hose and sprays the The slip on the oil. 36 What was that all about? Well, Artoo has been . . . No loose wire jokes . . . He's doing the best he can. Did say anything? He's trying! didn't say anything! 37 ignites his arm rockets and shoots out of their grip, spraying them both with oil and setting them on fire. The slip and slide until they fall, smoldering. rolls away. 38 The elevator door opens and the carefully make their way into the main room of the General's Quarters. At the far end sits and move toward the As they get closer to they see a very distressed look on the Chancellor's face. (bows) Chancellor. Are you all right? (quietly) Count Dooku. makes a small gesture with his hand. and turn around. The elevator as strides into the room. He is above the Jedi, standing on a balcony, with two The Jedi turn to see him. He looks down on the Jedi. (quietly to Anakin) This time we will do it together. was about to say that. jumps down to the main level. Get help! You're no match for him. He's a Sith Lord. Chancellor Palpatine, Sith Lords are our specialty. and throw off their cloaks and ignite their lightsabers. Your swords, please, Master Jedi. We don't want to make a mess of things in front of the Chancellor. and move toward You won't get away this time, Dooku. and charge great sword fight ensues. I've been looking forward to this. My powers have doubled since the last time we met, Count. Good. Twice the pride, double the fall. lunges at the and they fall back . . . (continuing) Your moves are clumsy, Kenobi . . . too predictable. You'll have to do better. As the battle proceeds, and are tired. is stronger as he becomes angry. continues to drive the attack on throws back using the Force. and move up the stairs. As they reach the upper landing of the General's Quarters, leaps over reaches the top of the stairs, destroying holds in the air using the Force as he turns and kicks out of frame. is choking. hits the archway. sends flying. The Jedi tumbles to the lower level unconscious. spins around again and, using the Force, causes a section of the balcony to drop onto spins and kicks sending him over the balcony. Jumps, following him down to the main floor. and continue the fight. (continuing) sense great fear in you, Skywalker. You have hate, you have anger, but you don’t use them. Anakin regains his composure and attacks as the Dark Lord continues his spin to meet him head on. Their fighting becomes even more intense. Anakin attacks with a new ferociousness. 39 Anakin and Dooku continue their fight. It is intense! Finally, in one last energized charge, cuts off DOOKU's hands. The Jedi catches the lightsaber as it drops from the severed Sith Lord's hand. stumbles to the floor as puts the two lightsabers to his neck. is grinning as he watches DOOKU's defeat. Good, Anakin, good. knew you could do it. Kill him. Kill him now! shouldn't . . . Do it!! cuts off DOOKU's head. huge somewhere deep in the ship rattles everything. ... couldn't stop myself. You did well, Anakin. He was too dangerous to be kept alive. drops DOOKU's lightsaber, moving to Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner. raises his hands toward who is strapped in the Admiral's Chair. The Chancellor's restraints pop loose. (continuing) shouldn't have done that, Chancellor. It's not the Jedi way. stands up, rubbing his wrists. It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge. It wasn't the first time, Anakin. Remember what you told me about your mother and the Sand People. Now, we must leave before more security droids arrive. The ship begins to list to one side. rushes over to lifts the control console from on top of him, and pulls him free. He kneels down and checks out his unconscious friend. heads for the elevators. (continuing) Anakin, there is no time. We must get off the ship before it's too late. He seems to be all right. No broken bones, breathing's all right. Leave him, or we'll never make it. His fate will be the same as ours. picks up slings him over his shoulder, and heads for the elevators. 40 Prepare for attack. All batteries fire! Fire! 41 Clone gunners fire on the Trade Federation cruiser and take fire in return. Gun emplacements are destroyed. Clone troopers go flying. 42 carries to the elevator doors and hits the button. joins him. The elevator's not working, (into his comlink) Artoo . . . a response to (continuing) . . . Activate Elevator 3224. Suddenly the ship shifts to its side as the elevator doors open. is thrown to the ground. jumps to the door frame of the elevator. looks into the elevator shaft. (continuing) Artoo ... do you copy? Artoo, come in! 43 Windows are blown out, droids and equipment are sucked into space. Reverse stabilizers. 44 As the ship rolls, spacecraft and equipment from one side of the ship to the other. Several objects break through the metal blast doors, causing objects to be sucked into space. starts to slide toward one of the small holes. 45 As the elevator shaft rotates, it has become a long hallway. clings to the doorframe with on his shoulder, as the Chancellor struggles to join him. 46 continues to skid and slide toward open space. He swerves around boxes and wrecked fighters. One of the stumbles and is consumed by the electronic shield in a zap. a reply as he dodges the laser blasts of the One bolt hits very near him, and he in terror. 47 Magnetize! Magnetize! 48 is about to be overtaken by a starfighter sliding behind him. He falls into a heap of broken battle droid parts and the fighter bounces over him. 49 The heads straight down toward the planet. 50 jumps into the horizontal elevator shaft with still on his shoulder. We can't wait. Come on, we have to be fast. climbs into the elevator shaft also. They start running. The ship begins to roll again, and the Jedi and the Chancellor are forced to jump from one side of the elevator to the other. 51 Fire the emergency booster engines. Leveling out, sir. 52 still carrying on his back, and run down the elevator shaft as it starts to move upright. cuts a control box on one of the doors, but before the doors can open, the ship moves to an angle, causing and to start sliding down the shaft. grabs some wires in the control box with one hand. grabs onto the Jedi's leg. As the ship rights itself, they are left hanging in the bottomless elevator shaft. 53 and hang precariously on the side of the bottomless elevator shaft. regains consciousness and tries to look around. Easy. . . . We're in a bit of a situation. Did miss something? looks down and sees and the bottomless pit. They hear on Obi-Wan's comlink. The ship begins to roll, causing the vertical shaft to move into a forty-five-degree angle. They hear the elevator brakes release and look up to see the elevator heading toward them. Hold on. What is that? and look up to watch the elevator approach them at high speed, then turns to (continuing) Oops. Artoo, Artoo, shut down the elevator! Too late! Jump! They fall about three hundred feet before the tilt of the ship catches up with them, and they hit the side of the shaft and slide at great speed just ahead of the elevator. The shaft continues to rotate until it is completely horizontal. and take out and throw grappling hooks. The hooks catch and they continue to fall. All the doors in the elevator shaft open up, and the group swings through the open door into a hallway. The elevator roars by. 54 and fly through the elevator door and land. Let's see if we can find something in the hangar bay that's still flyable. Come on. Artoo, get down here. Artoo, do you copy? 55 As the Federation Cruiser continues to rotate, and pokes a periscope out of a pile of broken He looks around then rockets up out of the debris. 56 and lead down a hallway toward the hangar bay. 57 It is extremely windy as bits and pieces are continually sucked into space. The hangar bay doors are closed, but great stresses are being exerted as the ship twists, re-entering the atmosphere of Coruscant. They stop in a doorway leading into the hangar bay. None of those ships will get us anywhere. agree. What are we going to do? don't know. Don't look at me. don't know. and both look to He shrugs his shoulders. Anakin's Fighter has been sucked out of the hangar bay and is totaled. Suddenly, the ship turns on its side. Here, Chancellor, lock this around your waist, and hold on. We'll head toward the bridge and see if we can find an escape pod. hands the end of a cable that is attached to his utility belt. attaches it around his waist. and throw their utility cables to some pipes in the ceiling and swing to a second set of pipes. 58 grabs onto the pipes that run along what was the ceiling and is now the wall. As he moves out into the hangar, start firing at him. The Jedi ignites his lightsaber and deflects the bolts back at the blowing them up. and follow along the pipes running along the ceiling of the hangar. struggles against the escaping air of the pressurized hangar. loses his grip as a pipe breaks, causing a rush of steam, but manages to maintain his grasp on the pipe as the dangles on the other end of the utility cable. They are surrounded by and as the ship twists and tries to break apart. moves out of the steam and struggles to pull back to safety. is almost pulled loose in the buffeting winds. The ceiling behind them buckles, causing pipes to break, creating geysers of steam. Some bits of pipe go hurling into the blast doors and out into space. They make it through a hangar doorway and close it behind them. 59 and are out of breath. Well, that was close. They laugh. 60 General, we found the Jedi. They're in hallway 328. Activate ray shields. 61 They run down the hallway. Suddenly, ray shields drop around them, putting them in an electronic box in the middle of the hallway. Ray shields! takes a deep breath to express his total disappointment. Wait a minute, how'd this happen! We're smarter than this. Apparently not, Master. This is the oldest trap in the book . . . Well ... was distracted. Oh, so all of a sudden it's my fault. You're the Master. I'm just a hero. I'm open to suggestions here. Why don't we let them take us to General Grievous. Perhaps with Count Dooku's demise, we can negotiate our release. The Jedi look at each other in disbelief. say . . . patience. Patience! That's your plan, is it? Yes, Artoo will be along in a few moments and he'll release the ray shields . . . comes skidding across the hallway and bashes into the opposite wall. He takes a moment to compose himself. (continuing) See! No problem. Suddenly several doorways open, revealing emerge from behind the turns and zaps one of the who then kicks over. Don't move, dummy. Ouch! Zap this. Do you have a plan 62 and are captured by They stand before the Oh yes. General Kenobi, the Negotiator. We've been waiting for you. That wasn't much of a rescue. walks to and hands him the lightsabers. That depends upon your point of view. Hah! And Anakin Skywalker ... was expecting someone with your reputation to be a little older. General Grievous . . . Supreme Commander of the Droid Armies. You're shorter than expected. Ahhhh, Jedi scum . . . Anakin, try not to upset him. We have a job to do. Your lightsabers will make a fine addition to my collection. Not this time. And this time you won't escape. Artoo. creates a distraction by extending all his arms, shooting out electrical pulses, and bouncing around. hands restrained with electrobonds, spins around, reaches out and, using the Force, yanks his lightsaber out of the General's hand, ignites it, and cuts his bonds. He continues to spin around and cuts Anakin free. Crush them! Make them suffer! uses the Force to yank his lightsaber out of the General's hand. The that surround them begin to and jump into the line of fire. The bridge degenerates into chaos. and are locked in a pitched battle between electro staffs and laser swords with GRIEVOUS's is taken away by two walks around the bridge directing the Stay and watch your stations. fights one of General Grievous's The carries an electrified staff about five feet long. When the laser sword hits it, electrical bolts fly everywhere and surround the laser sword. is unable to cut the staff. The Jedi gets whacked pretty good a couple of times and is knocked halfway across the bridge. pulls himself together and attacks again, cutting off the head. The keeps attacking. struggles to defend himself against the other manic He cuts the in half. try to take the away. follows them down the hallway and cuts them down, rescuing the Chancellor. finishes off the headless It crumbles to the floor in pieces. as the giant spacecraft begins to list and fall out of orbit. yells at Sir, we are falling out of orbit. All aft control cells are dead. Stay on course . . . Don't bother with them. Keep the ship in orbit. and destroy the remaining retrieves one of the staffs and faces leaps over a console and lands behind You lose, General Kenobi. One of the stands next to the General. The ship is breaking up! We've run out of time. tries to get at runs at the General from the opposing side. turns and throws his electrified staff at the window. It breaks, causing chaos as everything that is not nailed down is sucked into space. is the first one sucked out into space. He fires a cable from his arm that attaches to the ship. He swings in and lands firmly on the side of the ship. and hold on for dear life. blast shield closes around where the window used to be. 63 continues to fight the The have backed him into a corner. hides behind a control panel as the blast away at him. He jumps up and over the cutting most of them down before he lands. He destroys the and joins and cut through the rest of the as if they were made of butter. stands in shock as he watches the carnage. Droid parts are firing everywhere. and stand back to back and cut down the last of the just as there is a huge shudder, followed by more alarms. begin to fly outside the windows. The hull is burning up! 64 detaches his cable and crawls along the exterior hull of the Federation Cruiser, using his magnetized hands and feet. He reaches a row of escape pods and enters an airlock. 65 enters the escape pod bay through the hatch. The Droid General goes to a control panel and opens an escape pod. Time to abandon ship. pulls a row of switches, and one by one the escape pods are jettisoned. 66 He gets in one, the hatch closes, and the escape pod blasts away from the damaged Cruiser. 67 and go over to the navigator's chair. All the escape pods have been launched. Grievous. Can you fly a cruiser like this? You mean, do know how to land what's left of this thing? sits in the pilot's chair and sees on a screen the back half of the ship break away. There is a great jolt, and the ship tilts forward. Well? Under the circumstances, I'd say the ability to pilot this thing is irrelevant. Strap yourselves in. and strap themselves into chairs. struggles with the controls of the ship. The ship starts to glow, and pieces break off. moves in on Palpatine 's controls and assists in flying the cruiser. Steady . . . Attitude . . . eighteen degrees. beeps. Pressure rising. We've got to slow this wreck down. Open all hatches, extend all flaps, and drag fins. Temp steady. Hatches open, flaps extended, drag fins . . . large part of the ship breaks away. We lost something. Not to worry, we're still flying half the ship. Now we're really picking up speed . . . I'm going to shift a few degrees and see if can slow us down. Careful . . . we're heating up-twelve thousand . . . thirteen thousand . . . What's our speed? Eight plus sixty-forty. Eight plus sixty-twenty. Eight plus sixty. Temp ten thousand, nine thousand . . . we're in the atmosphere . . . points to one of the controls. beeps madly. Grab that . . . Keep us level. Steady. Steady. Easy, Artoo. Hang on, this may get a little rough. We lost our heat shields. Five thousand. Three thousand . . . two thousand. Fireships on the left and the right. FlRESHIP We'll take you in. Copy that. Landing strip's straight ahead. We're coming in too hot. Easy-easy. The ship leaves a contrail as it streaks across the Coruscant skyline. and hold on for dear life as the ship shakes and rattles toward an industrial landing platform. 68 large landing platform in the industrial part of the city is surrounded by Emergency Fire Speeders. The smoking ship approaches as five Fireships spray it with foam. The ship finally makes a rather hard landing. Another happy landing. 69 The small Jedi Shuttle carrying and the arrives at the landing platform. There are a including and waiting for them. and get out. and stay in the doorway of the Jedi Shuttle. (to Obi-Wan) Are you coming, Master? Oh no. I'm not brave enough for politics. have to report to the Council. Besides, someone needs to be the poster boy. Hold on, this whole operation was your idea. You planned it. You led the rescue operation. You have to be the one to take the bows this time. Sorry, old friend. Let us not forget that you rescued me from the Buzz Droids. And you killed Count Dooku. And you rescued the Chancellor, carrying me unconscious on your back, and you managed to land that bucket of bolts safely . . . All because of your training, Master. You deserve all those speeches of your greatness. . . . the endless speeches . . . Anakin, let's be fair. Today, you are the hero and you deserve your glorious day with the politicians. All right. But you owe me . . . and not for saving your skin for the tenth time . . . Ninth time . . . that business on Cato Nemoidia doesn't count. I'll see you at the briefing. smiles and walks away from The and his entourage approach WlNDU: Chancellor Palpatine, what a welcome sight! Are you all right? Yes, thanks to your two Jedi Knights. They killed Count Dooku, but General Grievous has escaped once again. WlNDU: General Grievous will run and hide as he always does. He is a coward. That maybe true, but with Count Dooku dead, he is the leader of the Droid Army, and assure you, the Senate will vote to continue the war as long as Grievous is alive. WlNDU: Then the Jedi Council will make finding Grievous our highest priority. and the crowd walk away from the platform toward the Senate Building Grand Hallway. Skywalker, the Republic cannot praise you enough. and walking in the hallway. Thank you, Senator Organa. The kidnapping was a bold move by the Separatists, but it was a mistake that Obi-Wan and were able to take advantage of. and follow behind the crowd. It couldn't possibly be as bad as all that. beeps. (continuing) Well, there, agree with you. In fact, could do with a tune-up myself. 70 is at the back of the crowd of talking with and scoot along ahead of them. The end of Count Dooku will surely bring an end to this war, and an end to the Chancellor's draconian security measures. wish that were so, but the fighting is going to continue until General Grievous is spare parts . . . The Chancellor is very clear about that. Behind a row of large columns, a follows the and the senses the figure. I'll do everything can with the Senate. Excuse me. Certainly. stops, and goes off after and the others. goes behind one of the giant columns to meet up with the who is revealed to be They embrace and kiss. Oh, Anakin! Thank goodness, you're back. missed you, Padme. I've missed you so. There were whispers . . . that you'd been killed. I've been living with unbearable dread. I'm back, I'm all right. It feels like we've been apart for a lifetime. And it might have been ... If the Chancellor hadn't been kidnapped. don't think they would have ever brought us back from the Outer Rim sieges. starts to give her another kiss. She steps back. Wait, not here . . . He grabs her again. Yes, here! I'm tired of all this deception. don't care if they know we're married. Anakin, don't say things like that. You're important to the Republic ... to ending this war. love you more than anything, but won't let you give up your life as a Jedi for me . . . I've given my life to the Jedi order, but I'd only give up my life, for you. (playfully) wouldn't like that. wouldn't like that one bit. Patience, my handsome Jedi . . . Come to me later. embraces her, then looks at her. Are you all right? You're trembling. What's going on? I'm just excited to see you. That's not it. sense more . . . what is it? Nothing . . . nothing . . . You're frightened. (a little angry) Tell me what's going on! begins to cry. You've been gone five months . . . it's been very hard for me. I've never felt so alone. There's . . . . . . Is there someone else? (peeved, angry) No! Why do you think that? Your jealousy upsets me so much, Anakin. do nothing to betray you, yet you still don't trust me. Nothing has changed. (sheepish) I'm afraid of losing you, Padme . . . that's all. will never stop loving you, Anakin. My only fear is losing you. It's just that I've never seen you like this . . . Something wonderful has happened. They look at each other for a long moment. (continuing) I'm . . . Annie, I'm pregnant. is stunned. He thinks through all of the ramifications of this. He takes her in his arms. That's . . . that's wonderful. What are we going to do? We're not going to worry about anything right now, all right? This is a happy moment. The happiest moment of my life. 71 small lands. surround the ramp as descends onto the platform. approaches. The planet is secure, sir. The population is under control. Good. Where is the Separatist Council? This way, sir ... takes the elevator to an upper level. He enters a conference room and presses a series of buttons on the table, and bows. 72 hologram of Darth Sidious appears. Yes, Lord Sidious. SlDIOUS: General Grievous, suggest you move the Separatist leaders to Mustafar. It will be done, My Lord. SlDIOUS: The end of the war is near, General, and promise you, victory is assured. The hologram of Sidious talks to about the death of Count Dooku. But the loss of Count Dooku? SlDIOUS: His death was a necessary loss, which will ensure our victory. Soon will have a new apprentice . . . one far younger and more powerful than Lord Tyranus. 73 stands in the balcony brushing her hair. leans against the wall, watching her lovingly. . . . every second was thinking of you. Protecting the endless, nameless Outer Rim settlements became a torture . . . the battles were easy, the longing became unbearable . . . I've never been so happy as am at this moment. Annie, want to have our baby back home on Naboo. We could go to the lake country where no one would know . . . where we would be safe. could go early-and fix up the baby's room. know the perfect spot, right by the gardens. You are so beautiful! It's only because I'm so in love . . . No, it's because I'm so in love with you. So love has blinded you? Well, that's not exactly what meant . . . But it's probably true! They laugh. haven't laughed in so long . . . Neither have 74 The view is strangely distorted and disorienting. is on a table in an alien medical chamber. She is giving birth and is screaming. Anakin, help me! Help, Anakin! Anakin, love you. love you. She screams and dies. 75 awakens in a panic. He is covered in sweat. He looks over in the bed and sees sound asleep next to him. gets out from under the sheets and sits on the side of the bed. He is breathing heavily. He puts his head in his hands and weeps. He regains his composure and leaves the room down a set of stairs. awakens, realizes Anakin is gone. Anakin?? She gets out of bed and goes downstairs to look for him. 76 walks down a flight of stairs onto a large veranda. The vast city planet of Coruscant, smoldering from the battle, is spread out before him. He is distraught. descends the stairs and joins on the veranda. She takes his hand. He doesn't look at her. What's bothering you? Nothing . . . touches the japor snippet around neck, that Anakin gave her when he was a small boy. (continuing) remember when gave this to you. Anakin, how long is it going to take for us to be honest with each other? It was a dream. Bad? Like the ones used to have about my mother just before she died. And? It was about you. They look at each other. moment of concern passes between them. Tell me. It was only a dream. gives him a long, worried look. takes a deep breath. (continuing) You die in childbirth . . . And the baby? don't know. It was only a dream. takes in his arms. . . . won't let this one become real, Padme. They embrace, then part. Anakin, this baby will change our lives. doubt the Queen will continue to allow me to serve in the Senate, and if the Council discovers you are the father, you will be expelled from the Jedi Order. know . Anakin, do you think Obi-Wan might be able to help us? (suspicious) Have you told him anything? No, but he's your mentor, your best friend . . . he must suspect something. He's been a father to me, but he's still on the Council. Don't tell him anything! won't, Anakin. don't need his help . . . Our baby is a blessing, not a problem. 77 and sit in Yoda 's room, deep in thought. Premonitions . . . premonitions . . . Hmmmm . . . these visions you have . . . They are of pain, suffering, death . . . Yourself you speak of, or someone you know? Someone . . . . . . close to you? Yes. Careful you must be when sensing the future, Anakin. The fear of loss is a path to the dark side. won't let these visions come true, Master Yoda. Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them, do not. Miss them, do not. Attachment leads to jealousy. The shadow of greed, that is. What must do, Master Yoda? Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose. 78 hurries down a temple hallway, heading toward a Jedi Briefing Room. are exiting. 79 rushes into the Briefing Room. By the time he reaches the Chamber, the last of the Jedi are leaving. Only remains at the front of the lecture hall. He is shutting off some holograms and electronic charts and maps. You missed the report on the Outer Rim sieges. I'm sorry, was held up. have no excuse. In short, they are going very well. Saleucami has fallen, and Master Vos has moved his troops to Boz Pity. What's wrong then? The Senate is expected to vote more executive powers to the Chancellor today. Well, that can only mean less deliberating and more action. Is that bad? It will make it easier for us to end this war. Anakin, be careful of your friend Palpatine. Be careful of what? He has requested your presence. What for? He would not say. He didn't inform the Jedi Council? That's unusual, isn't it? All of this is unusual, and it's making me feel uneasy. You're probably aware that relations between the Council and the Chancellor are stressed. know the Council has grown wary of the Chancellor's power, mine also for that matter. Aren't we all working together to save the Republic? Why all this distrust? The Force grows dark, Anakin, and we are all affected by it. Be wary of your feelings. 80 stands with at his window overlooking the vastness of Coruscant. Several buildings have been destroyed. brown haze hangs over the landscape. Anakin, this afternoon the Senate is going to call on me to take direct control of the Jedi Council. The Jedi will no longer report to the Senate? They will report to me . . . personally. The Senate is too unfocused to conduct a war. This will bring a quick end to things. agree, but the Jedi Council may not see it that way. There are times when we must all endure adjustments to the constitution in the name of security. With all due respect, sir, the Council is in no mood for more constitutional amendments. Thank you, my friend, but in this case have no choice . . . this war must be won. Everyone will agree on that. Anakin, I've known you since you were a small boy. have advised you over the years when could ... am very proud of your accomplishments. You have won many battles the Jedi Council thought were lost . . . and you saved my life. hope you trust me, Anakin. Of course. need your help, son. What do you mean? fear the Jedi. The Council keeps pushing for more control. They're shrouded in secrecy and obsessed with maintaining their autonomy . . . ideals. find simply incomprehensible in a democracy. can assure you that the Jedi are dedicated to the values of the Republic, sir. Nevertheless, their actions will speak more loudly than their words. I'm depending on you. For what? don't understand. To be the eyes, ears, and voice of the Republic . . . thinks about this. (continuing) Anakin . . . I'm appointing you to be my personal representative on the Jedi Council. Me? Master? am overwhelmed, sir, but the Council elects its own members. They will never accept this. think they will . . . they need you more than you know. 81 and and sit in Senator Organa 's office. Now that he has control of the Jedi Council, the Chancellor has appointed Governors to oversee all star systems in the Republic. When did this happen? The decree was posted this morning. Do you think he will dismantle the Senate? Why bother? As a practical matter, the Senate no longer exists. The constitution is in shreds. Amendment after amendment . . . executive directives, sometimes a dozen in one day. We can't let a thousand years of democracy disappear without a fight. looks at each other, a little worried at the implications of what was just said. What are you suggesting? apologize. didn't mean to sound like a Separatist. We are not Separatists trying to leave the Republic. We are loyalists, trying to preserve democracy in the Republic. It has become increasingly clear to many of us that the Chancellor has become an enemy of democracy. can't believe it has come to this! Chancellor Palpatine is one of my oldest advisors. He served as my Ambassador when was Queen. GlDDEAN Senator, fear you underestimate the amount of corruption that has taken hold in the Senate. The Chancellor has played the Senators well. They know where the power lies, and they will do whatever it takes to share in it. Palpatine has become a dictator and we have helped him to do it. We can't sit around debating any longer, we have decided to do what we can to stop it. Senator Mon Mothma and are putting together an organization . . . Say no more. Senator Organa. understand. At this point, it's better to leave some things unsaid. Yes. agree and we must not discuss this with anyone, without everyone in this group agreeing. That means those closest to you . . . even family ... no one can be told. They nod their heads. considers this for a moment. Agreed. 82 stands pensively in front of the Jedi Council Chambers. The door opens. 83 enters and stands in the middle of the room. He is surrounded by the Jedi Council the of and Anakin Skywalker, we have approved your appointment to the Council as the Chancellor's personal representative. will do my best to uphold the principles of the Jedi Order. Allow this appointment lightly, the Council does not. Disturbing is this move by Chancellor Palpatine. understand. You are on this Council, but we do not grant you the rank of Master. Anakin reacts with anger. What? ! How can you do this?? This is outrageous, it's unfair . . . I'm more powerful than any of you. How can you be on the Council and not be a Master? Take a seat, young Skywalker. Forgive me, Master. goes and sits in one of the empty chairs. Everyone is embarrassed. speaks. Kl-ADI-MUNDI: We have surveyed all systems in the Republic, and have found no sign of General Grievous. Hiding in the Outer Rim, Grievous is. The outlying systems, you must sweep. It may take some time . . . we do not have many ships to spare. We cannot take ships from the front line. And yet, it would be fatal for us to allow the droid armies to regroup. Master Kenobi, our spies contact, you must, and then wait. Kl-ADI-MUNDI: What about the droid attack on the Wookiees? It is critical we send an attack group there, immediately! He's right, that is a system we cannot afford to lose. It's the main navigation route for the southwestern quadrant. know that system well. It would take us little time to drive the droids off that planet. Skywalker, your assignment is here with the Chancellor, and Kenobi must find General Grievous. Go, will. Good relations with the Wookiees, have. It is settled then. Yoda will take a battalion of clones to reinforce the Wookiees on Kashyyyk. May the Force be with us all. is disappointed. 84 and walk through one of the massive Jedi Temple hallways. is furious. What kind of nonsense is this, put me on the Council and not make me a Master!?? That's never been done in the history of the Jedi. It's insulting! Calm down, Anakin. You have been given a great honor. To be on the Council at your age . . . It's never happened before. Listen to me, Anakin. The fact of the matter is you're too close to the Chancellor. The Council doesn't like it when he interferes in Jedi affairs. swear to you, didn't ask to be put on the Council . . . But it's what you wanted! Your friendship with Chancellor Palpatine seems to have paid off. That has nothing to do with this. Anakin, regardless of how it happened, you find yourself in a delicate situation. You mean divided loyalties. warned you there was tension between the Council and the Chancellor. was very clear. Why didn't you listen? You walked right into it. The Council is upset I'm the youngest to ever serve. No, it is not. Anakin, worry when you speak of jealousy and pride. Those are not Jedi thoughts. They're dangerous, dark thoughts. Master, you of all people should have confidence in my abilities. know where my loyalties lie. hope so . . . sense there's more to this talk than you're saying. Anakin, the only reason the Council has approved your appointment is because the Chancellor trusts you. And? Anakin, look, am on your side. didn't want to see you put in this situation. What situation? (takes a deep breath) The Council wants you to report on all of the Chancellor's dealings. They want to know what he's up to. They want me to spy on the Chancellor? That's treason! We are at war, Anakin. The Jedi Council is sworn to uphold the principles of the Republic, even if the Chancellor does not. Why didn't the Council give me this assignment when we were in session? This assignment is not to be on record. The Council asked me to approach you on this personally. The Chancellor is not a bad man, Obi-Wan. He befriended me. He's watched out for me ever since arrived here. That is why you must help us, Anakin. Our allegiance is to the Senate, not to its leader who has managed to stay in office long after his term has expired. Master, the Senate demanded that he stay longer. Yes, but use your feelings, Anakin. Something is out of place. You're asking me to do something against the Jedi Code. Against the Republic. Against a mentor . . . and a friend. That's what's out of place here. Why are you asking this of me? The Council is asking you. 85 heads for the huge Clone landing platform. 86 and ride in the as it heads for the Clone landing platform. Mace and Obi-Wan are sitting. : Anakin did not take to his assignment with much enthusiasm. Too much under the sway of the Chancellor, he is. Much anger there is in him. Too much pride in his powers. It's very dangerous, putting them together. don't think the boy can handle it. don't trust him. He'll be all right. trust him with my life. wish did. With all due respect, Master, is he not the Chosen One? Is he not to destroy the Sith and bring balance to the Force? So the prophecy says. prophecy . . . that misread could have been. He will not let me down. He never has. hope right you are. And now destroy the Droid armies on Kashyyyk, will. May the Force be with you. The lands and the ramp lowers. exits the and stand and give him a brief bow then take off in the 87 Padme's Speeder pulls up to the landing platform. escorts onto the veranda, where and are waiting. turns to Thank you, Captain. Rest well. My Lady. gets back into the Speeder, and it disappears into the cityscape. The Motee and Elle, approach as the moves in the background. is standing nearby. I'll be up in a while. Yes, my lady. stands, confused, as the turn and exit. Is there anything might do for you, my lady? Yes, make sure all the security droids are working. Thank you, Threepio. The golden droid turns and exits. stands and watches the sunset. The moves toward her. She senses something. Beautiful, isn't it? jumps and turns around. You startled me. He sits next to her on the bench. How are you feeling? He keeps kicking. He?! Why do you think it's a boy? (laughs) My motherly intuition. She puts his hand on her belly. Whoa! With a kick that strong, it's got to be a girl. They laugh. heard about your appointment. Anakin. I'm so proud of you. may be on the Council, but . . . they refused to accept me as a Jedi Master. Patience. In time, they will recognize your skills. They still treat me as if were a Padawan learner. . . they fear my power, that's the problem. Anakin . . . Sometimes, wonder what's happening to the Jedi Order . . . think this war is destroying the principles of the Republic. Have you ever considered that we may be on the wrong side? (suspicious) What do you mean? What if the democracy we thought we were serving no longer exists, and the Republic has become the very evil we have been fighting to destroy? don't believe that. And you're sounding like a Separatist! Anakin, this war represents a failure to listen . . . Now, you're closer to the Chancellor than anyone. Please, please ask him to stop the fighting and let diplomacy resume. (growing angry) Don't ask me to do that, Padme. Make a motion in the Senate, where that kind of a request belongs. I'm not your errand boy. I'm not anyone's errand boy! What is it? Nothing. Don't do this . . . don't shut me out. Let me help you. You can't help me . . . I'm trying to help you. They look in each other's eyes. (continuing) sense . . . there are things you are not telling me. is startled at this. sense there are things you are not telling me. smiles. is a little embarrassed. (continuing) Hold me . . . like you did by the lake on Naboo, so long ago . . . when there was nothing but our love ... No politics, no plotting ... no war. 88 lands his speeder and exits. runs up the stairs at the Galaxies Opera House. runs through the hallway and enters Palpatine's box, where the is sitting with Mas Amedda and Sly-Moore, watching the Man Calamari Ballet doing "Squid Lake." You wanted to see me, Chancellor. Yes, Anakin! Come closer. have good news. Our Clone Intelligence Units have discovered the location of General Grievous. He is hiding in the Utapau system. At last, we'll be able to capture that monster and end this war. would worry about the collective wisdom of the Council if they didn't select you for this assignment. You are the best choice by far but, they can't always be trusted to do the right thing. They try. Sit down, (to his aides) Leave us. sits next to The Chancellor leans over to him. (continuing) Anakin, you know I'm not able to rely on the Jedi Council. If they haven't included you in their plot, they soon will. I'm not sure understand. You must sense what have come to suspect . . . the Jedi Council want control of the Republic . . . they're planning to betray me. don't think . . . Anakin, search your feelings. You know, don't you? know they don't trust you . . . Or the Senate . . . or the Republic . . . or democracy for that matter. have to admit my trust in them has been shaken. Why? They asked you to do something that made you feel dishonest, didn't they? doesn't say anything. He simply looks down. (continuing) They asked you to spy on me, didn't they? don't know ... don't know what to say. Remember back to your early teachings. Anakin. "All those who gain power are afraid to lose it." Even the Jedi. The Jedi use their power for good. Good is a point of view, Anakin. And the Jedi point of view is not the only valid one. The Dark Lords of the Sith believe in security and justice also, yet they are considered by the Jedi to be. . . . . . evil. . . . from a Jedi's point of view. The Sith and the Jedi are similar in almost every way, including their quest for greater power. The difference between the two is the Sith are not afraid of the dark side of the Force. That is why they are more powerful. The Sith rely on their passion for their strength. They think inward, only about themselves. And the Jedi don't? The Jedi are selfless . . . they only care about others. smiles. Or so you've been trained to believe. Why is it, then, that they have asked you to do something you feel is wrong? I'm not sure it's wrong. Have they asked you to betray the Jedi code? The Constitution? friendship? Your own values? Think. Consider their motives. Keep your mind clear of assumptions. The fear of losing power is a weakness of both the Jedi and the Sith. is deep in thought. (continuing) Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis "the wise"? No. thought not. It's not a story the Jedi would tell you. It's a Sith legend. Darth Plagueis was a Dark Lord of the Sith, so powerful and so wise he could use the Force to influence the midi-chlorians to create life ... He had such a knowledge of the dark side that he could even keep the ones he cared about from dying. He could actually save people from death? The dark side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural. What happened to him? He became so powerful . . . the only thing he was afraid of was losing his power, which eventually, of course, he did. Unfortunately, he taught his apprentice everything he knew, then his apprentice killed him in his sleep. (smiles) Plagueis never saw it coming. It's ironic he could save others from death, but not himself. Is it possible to learn this power? Not from a Jedi. 89 flanked by approaches the tree housing the 90 and various speak via hologram. The discussion includes and Kl-ADI-MUNDI: (holo) Palpatine thinks General Grievous is on Utapau. We have had no reports of this from our agents. (holo) How could the Chancellor have come by this information and we know nothing about it? We have had contact with Baron Papanoida and he said no one was there. partial message was intercepted in a diplomatic packet from the Chairman of Utapau. Act on this, we must. The capture of General Grievous will end this war. Quickly and decisively we should proceed. Does everyone agree? All the concur. The Chancellor has requested that lead the campaign. They all look at a bit disturbed. (a little peeved) The Council will make up its own mind who is to go, not the Chancellor. Kl-ADI-MUNDI: Yes, this decision is ours to make. is embarrassed and becomes sullen. Master is needed, with more experience. Given our resources, recommend we send only one Jedi . . . Master Kenobi. He was not so successful the last time he met Grievous. throws a dirty look. (continuing) No offense, my Master, but I'm only stating a fact. Oh no, you're quite right, but do have the most experience with his ways of combat. Obi-Wan, my choice is. Kl-ADI-MUNDI: concur. Master Kenobi should go. agree. All the concur. Very well. Council is adjourned. is angry. (continuing) Obi-Wan, prepare two clone brigades as quickly as you can. If this report is true, there's no telling how many battle droids he may have with him. 91 gets out of his chair and walks to the edge of the platform. The droids have started up their main power generators. Then now the time is, Commander. Yes, sir. The battle begins. 92 lets out a roar as the Wookiee army rushes to face the race across the water against the and on the beach. provide air support, while a emerges from the watery depths. brave places an explosive on a and jumps off just before the From the Hologram Area, Yoda observes the ongoing battle. 93 Padme's apartment building is surrounded by the smog-shrouded city of Coruscant. 94 and sit on one of the couches. Has Anakin been to see you? Several times . . . was so happy to hear he was accepted on the Jedi Council. know ... he deserves it. He is impatient, strong willed, very opinionated, but truly gifted. They laugh. You're not just here to say hello. Something is wrong, isn't it? You should be a Jedi, Padme. You're not very good at hiding your feelings. It's Anakin . . . He's becoming moody and detached. He's been put in a difficult position as the Chancellor's representative . . . but think it's more than that. was hoping he may have talked to you. Why would he talk to me about his work? studies her. Neither of you is very good at hiding your feelings either. Don't give me that look. know how he feels about you. (nervous) What did he say? Nothing. He didn't have to. is a little flustered. She stands and Obi-Wan follows. She walks to the balcony. don't know what you're talking about. know you both too well. can see you two are in love. Padme, I'm worried about him. looks down and doesn't answer. (continuing) fear your relationship has confused him. He's changed considerably since we returned . . . They stand on the balcony and look off at the early morning city. starts to leave. stays looking off into the distant city. (continuing) Padme, I'm not telling the Council about any of this. ... hope didn't upset you. We're all friends, care about both of you . . . Thank you, Obi-Wan. Please do what you can to help him. 95 and five other Senators sit in Padme's living room. serves drinks to the guests. We cannot let this turn into another war. Absolutely, that is the last thing we want. We are hoping to form an alliance in the Senate to stop the Chancellor from further subverting the constitution, that's all. know a Jedi feel it would be wise to consult. That would be dangerous. We don't know where the Jedi stand in all this. only wish to discuss this with one . . . one trust. GiDDEAN Going against the Chancellor without the support of the Jedi is risky. The Jedi aren't any happier with the situation than we are . . . Patience, Senator. We have so many Senators on our side, surely that will pursuade the Chancellor. When you present the "petition of the two thousand" to the Chancellor, things may change. Let us see what we can accomplish in the Senate, before we include the Jedi. takes a deep breath in frustration and disappointment. 96 and walk onto a landing platform overlooking a docking bay where and armored weapons, tanks, etc., are being loaded onto a massive You're going to need me on this one, Master. Oh, agree. However it may turn out just to be a wild bantha chase. starts to turn and leave. Master! stops and walks over to him. (continuing) Master, I've disappointed you. have not been very appreciative of your training . . . have been arrogant and apologize . . . I've just been so frustrated with the Council. Your friendship means everything to me. You are strong and wise, Anakin, and am very proud of you. have trained you since you were a small boy. have taught you everything know. And you have become a far greater Jedi than could ever hope to be, and you have saved my life more times than can remember. But be patient, Anakin. It won't be long before the Council makes you a Jedi Master. starts down the ramp, then turns back. (continuing) Don't worry. have enough clones with me to take three systems the size of Utapau. think I'll be able to handle the situation . . . even without your help. Well, there's always a first time. laughs. They talk for a few more minutes before watches depart. Obi-Wan, may the Force be with you. Good-bye, old friend. May the Force be with you. heads down a ramp toward the waiting Republic cruiser. 97 The Republic cruiser lifts off and heads for space. 98 stand at attention in rows on the floor of the hangar deck, waiting to board landing craft. stands next to his talking to with their helmets off. hologram of the planet Utapau is projected by into the middle of the hangar. Fortunately, most of the cities are concentrated on this small continent here . . . on the far side. I'll keep them distracted until you get there. Just don't take too long. Come on, boss, when have ever let you down? They laugh. (laughing) Cato Nemoidia . . . for starters. climbs into his Jedi Fighter. That was Anakin who was late. believe. Very well, the burden is on me not to destroy all the droids before you get there. I'm counting on you. 99 blasts the out of the Republic Battle Cruiser and into the hyperspace ring. He heads for the planet Utapau. 100 The Chancellor's Transport races through the city and heads for the Senate Office Building landing platform. Waiting on the landing platform is a The Transport lands, and emerges with and The move off in another direction as greets who has been waiting for him. Well, Anakin, did you see your friend off? He will soon have Grievous's head. We can only hope the Council didn't make a mistake. The Council was very sure in its decision. They exit the landing platform. 101 They enter the main hallway of the Senate Office Building. They pass including from Naboo. Helloo Annie. Good en to see yousa . . . The Gungan waves to Anakin. Hi, Jar Jar. Oopsin da Chancellor!! So sorry, Your Highness, sir. Anakin turns back to the Chancellor. There are rumors in the Senate about Master Kenobi. Many believe he is not fit for this assignment. Not fit? Why would anyone think that? They say his mind has become fogged by the influence of a certain female Senator. That's ridiculous. Who?!? (slyly) No one knows who she is ... only that she is a Senator. That's impossible. would know. Sometimes the closest are the ones who cannot see. becomes worried. (continuing) Idle Senate gossip is rarely true and never accurate. I'm sure your Master will do fine. 102 calls out in pain. is near her and softly speaks to her. Save your energy. can't! Don't give up, Padme. Don't give up . . . 103 is in the living room, working. He sits on the couch where Obi-Wan was sitting. enters and crosses behind him. sense someone familiar . . . Obi-Wan's been here, hasn't he? He came by this morning. What did he want? looks at him for a moment. seems tense. He's worried about you. You told him about us, didn't you? She continues to walk to the bedroom, he follows. He's your best friend, Anakin. He says you're under a lot of stress. And he's not? You have been moody lately. I'm not moody . . . Anakin! Don't do this again. don't know ... feel . . . lost. Lost? What do you mean? You're always so sure of yourself. don't understand. Obi-Wan and the Council don't trust me. They trust you with their lives. Obi-Wan loves you as a son. Something's happening . . . I'm not the Jedi should be. am one of the most powerful Jedi, but I'm not satisfied ... want more, and know shouldn't. You expect too much of yourself. They stop in front of the window in the bedroom. puts his hand on her belly. have found a way to save you. Save me? From my nightmares. Is that what's bothering you? won't lose you, Padme. I'm not going to die in childbirth, Annie. promise you. No, promise you! am becoming so powerful with my new knowledge of the Force, will be able to keep you from dying. looks in the eye. You don't need more power, Anakin. believe you can protect me against anything, just as you are. They embrace and kiss. 104 blasts out of the FIGHTER's hyperspace ring and heads for the planet Utapau. The skims over the planet's surface, flat except for a few giant sinkholes. 105 lands his ship on a Platform projecting out of the side of a giant sinkhole. All is quiet. local administrator, comes out to greet the ship. climbs out of his Fighter as a looks over his ship. On a ledge above the landing platform, GRIEVOUS's watch as talks to TlON Greetings, young Jedi. What brings you to our remote sanctuary? Unfortunately, the war. TlON There is no war here unless you've brought it with you. With your kind permission, should like some fuel and to use your city as a base as search nearby systems for General Grievous. rushes out and refuels Obi-Wan’s Fighter. leans close to and speaks quietly. TlON He is here! We are being held hostage. They are watching us. understand. TlON The tenth level . . . thousands of Battle Droids . . . Tell your people to take shelter. If you have warriors, now is the time. starts back toward his Starfighter as leaves the Landing Platform. GRIEVOUS's retreat from the overhead platform. climbs back into his His Astro Unit turns to him: (continuing) Geenine, take the Fighter back to the ship. I'm staying here. Tell Cody I've made contact. The little Astro Droid a reply. 106 On a high balcony, looks down on the landing platform. few steps behind him stands one of GRIEVOUS's They watch the canopy lower. TlON told you, all he wanted was fuel. What was his name? TlON He didn't say. They watch as the takes off. 107 also watches his ship take off. He is hiding in the hallway. He quietly moves farther into the city. 108 quickly rushes up a stairway cut into the side of the sinkhole. It's hard to see him. In an alcove, he carefully surveys the city, then quickly moves on. 109 makes his way through the city, looking up at the tenth level with electro-binoculars from his utility belt. He tries to figure out how he is going to get up there. He hears strange bellowing cries and he investigates. He comes across a corral filled with about half a dozen are standing around. walks up to the and uses the Force with his slight hand movements. need transportation. (subtitled, in native tongue) You need transportation. Get it for me. (subtitled, in native tongue) will get it for you. One of the turns to the others and chatters away in his strange tongue. walks along the line of checking out each one. He looks at their teeth, legs, etc. Finally he pats one on the neck. This one. The brings the chosen one over to him. Boga. She answers to Boga. Good girl, Boga. swings onto the back of the The beast rears up and scurries outside to the edge of the sinkhole. 110 The rears up on her hind legs again, then climbs the wall of the sheer cliff and starts moving up toward the tenth level. The city appears to be deserted. is alert to any movement. 111 stands before the including and hides above the assembly and watches intently. It won't be long before the armies of the Republic track us here. am sending you to the Mustafar system in the Outer Rim. It is a volcanic planet which generates a great deal of scanning interference. You will be safe there. Safe? Chancellor Palpatine managed to escape your grip, General, without Count Dooku. have doubts about your ability to keep us safe. Be thankful, Viceroy, you have not found yourself in my grip . . . Your ship is waiting. is deep in thought. 112 The removes his cloak and jumps down behind the Hello, there! General Kenobi, you are a bold one. find your behavior bewildering . . . Surely you realize you're doomed, (to droids) Kill him! About a surround and his looks around, then walks right up to They stare at each other for a moment. Enough of this. The raise their power staffs to knock away, but ducks as the deadly staffs whistle over his head. The Jedi's lightsaber ignites, and deftly cuts one in two. His staff flies into the air and is caught by The other attack with an intense fury. uses the Force to release apiece of equipment from the ceiling. It drops on the smashing them. walks toward slashing the last to pieces. move toward Back away. will deal with this Jedi slime myself. Your move. You fool. have been trained in your Jedi arts by Count Dooku himself. Attack, Kenobi. His arms separate and grab all four lightsabers on his belt. His four arms create a flashing display of swordsmanship. You forget trained the Jedi that defeated Count Dooku! is hard-pressed to defend himself against the deadly onslaught. They fight across the control room as the try to pick off the Jedi. mounts a ferocious counterattack and cuts off one of GRIEVOUS's hands. loud is heard echoing throughout the sinkhole. and glance to the entrance of the control center and see in the distance, attacking in the sinkhole. On the far wall of the sinkhole, can be seen rappelling onto balconies. may not defeat your droids, but my troops certainly will. Army or not, you must realize you are doomed. don't think so. suddenly rappel into the entrance of the control center, ray guns blazing. Chaos. Laser bolts fly everywhere as the return fire. attacks who defends himself rigorously with one of his bodyguard's electro-staffs. uses the Force to hurl backwards. He falls onto a lower platform and jumps down after him. 113 More rappel into the control center and blast away at the remaining The cuts down several as he races to the entrance of the control center. spots racing toward one of the landing platforms in the midst of the battle. jumps onto a and takes off down the wall of the sinkhole. whistles for his who runs to him. jumps on. 114 The chase begins. Obi-Wan drops his lightsaber while riding Boga. 115 The sun is setting as the lights come on in the massive Senate Office Building. The sky is red. 116 listens to a delegation from the Senate, which includes and five other Senators: and stands to one side of understand your reservations completely, Senator, and assure you the appointment of Governors will in no way compete with the duties of the Senate. May take it then, that there will be no further amendments to the Constitution? want this terrible conflict to end as much as you do, My Lady, and when it does guarantee an immediate return to democracy . . . You are pursuing a diplomatic solution to the war, then. You must trust me to do the right things, Senator. That is why am here. But surely . . . The Chancellor turns on have said will do what is right, that should be enough for your . . . committee. On behalf of the "delegation of two thousand," thank you, Chancellor. thank you for bringing this to my attention, Senator. gives a frustrated look, then turns and exits with the other turns to (continuing) Their sincerity is to be admired, although sense there is more to their request than they are telling us. What do you mean? They are not to be trusted. Surely Senator Amidala can be trusted . . . These are unstable times for the Republic, Anakin. Some see instability as an opportunity. Senator Amidala is hiding something. can see it in her eyes. I'm sure you're mistaken. I'm surprised your Jedi insights are not more sensitive to such things. simply don't sense betrayal in Senator Amidala. studies carefully and gives him a skeptical look. Yes, you do, but you don't seem to want to admit it. There is much conflict in you, Anakin. 117 and talk via holograms. Master Windu, may interrupt? General Kenobi has made contact with General Grievous, and we have begun our attack. WlNDU: Thank you, Commander. Anakin, deliver this report to the Chancellor. His reaction will give us a clue to his intentions. Yes, Master. leaves the room. CODY's hologram disappears. sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the Force surrounds the Chancellor. Kl-ADI-MUNDI: If he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of Grievous, then he should be removed from office. WiNDU: That could be a dangerous move ... the Jedi Council would have to take control of the Senate in order to secure a peaceful transition . . . Kl-ADI-MUNDI: . . . and replace the Congress with Senators who are not filled with greed and corruption. To a dark place this line of thought will carry us. Hmmmmm. . . . great care we must take. 118 brings news to Chancellor, we have just received a report from Master Kenobi. He has engaged General Grievous. We can only hope that Master Kenobi is up to the challenge. should be there with him. It is upsetting to me to see that the Council doesn't seem to fully appreciate your talents. Don't you wonder why they won't make you a Jedi Master? wish knew. More and more get the feeling that am being excluded from the Council. know there are things about the Force that they are not telling me. They don't trust you, Anakin. They see your future. They know your power will be too strong to control. Anakin, you must break through the fog of lies the Jedi have created around you. Let me help you to know the subtleties of the Force. They walk into the hallway. How do you know the ways of the Force? My mentor taught me everything about the Force . . . even the nature of the dark side. They stop. You know the dark side?!? Anakin, if one is to understand the great mystery, one must study all its aspects, not just the dogmatic, narrow view of the Jedi. If you wish to become a complete and wise leader, you must embrace a larger view of the Force. Be careful of the Jedi, Anakin. (pausing) They fear you. In time they will destroy you. Let me train you. won't be a pawn in your political game. The Jedi are my family. Only through me can you achieve a power greater than any Jedi. Learn to know the dark side of the Force, Anakin, and you will be able to save your wife from certain death. What did you say? Use my knowledge, beg you . . . You're a Sith Lord! ignites his lightsaber. know what has been troubling you . . . Listen to me. Don't continue to be a pawn of the Jedi Council! Ever since I've known you, you've been searching for a life greater than that of an ordinary Jedi . . . a life of significance, of conscience. You're wrong! Are you going to kill me? would certainly like to. know you would. can feel your anger. It gives you focus, makes you stronger. raises his lightsaber to PALPATINE's throat. There is a tense moment, then relaxes, and then turns off his lightsaber. am going to turn you over to the Jedi Council. Of course you should. But you're not sure of their intentions, are you? What if am right and they are plotting to take over the Republic? will quickly discover the truth of all this. You have great wisdom, Anakin. Know the power of the dark side. The power to save Padme. stares at him for a moment. turns and moves to his office. (continuing) am not going anywhere. You have time to decide my fate. Perhaps you'll reconsider and help me rule the galaxy for the good of all . . . sits behind his desk. 119 gives the a swift kick with the heel of his boot, and they take off down the vertical side of the sheer cliff. As reaches the landing platform where his shuttle is waiting. drops onto the top of the starship with his spins his scooter around and takes off up the vertical cliff face with and his in hot pursuit. The sinkhole is engulfed in a great battle between and The cower in whatever shelter they can find. 120 on attack the and race through the city at breakneck speed. Passing through battle zones, narrowly escaping laser bolts, and from both sides. lays the Scooter down as he goes around sharp turns. Obi-Wan's breathes hard as she tries to keep up. They destroy droids, equipment, and clone troops as the and the cut a swath of destruction through the city. 121 works his way out onto the rim of the sinkhole, passing some wind blades. The evil Droid General releases the brakes on the lethal blades, and they begin to spin, cutting off Obi-Wan's access to the General. Obi-Wan's pulls up short in front of the blades. laughs and talks into a comlink. Prepare to move out of orbit. will be up in a few moments. sizes up the situation, looking for a way to get to The accelerates off the edge, activating his claws, drops, and clings to another nearby grouping of windmills. Obi-Wan's attempts to jump to follow and barely makes it, almost falling into the precipice below. 122 roars through the stone block tunnel system, riding up on the curved walls as he goes around corners or passes oncoming traffic. races after the Droid, his moving onto the ceiling as they pass traffic. catches up with and they charge through the tunnel, side by side. grabs the Droid's electronic staff. 123 Extending from the wall of a small sinkhole is a secret landing platform with a small Federation Fighter sitting in the middle of it. and race out of the tunnel system and onto the landing platform. yanks on the staff, then jumps off his onto the General's scooter, knocking both warriors to the ground. pulls out a laser pistol and fires at The Jedi reaches out his hand, grabs the General's electro-staff and spins the staff, blocking the laser bolts. charges swinging the staff and hitting the Droid in the stomach, knocking the gun away. is hit by the staff, and the Force bends his forearm. He pulls close to him, and they engage in a furious fight. The electro-staff is knocked away. The two engage in hand-to-hand combat. struggles to avoid the deadly blows of the brutal, unstoppable Droid. GRIEVOUS's stomachplate is loose. grabs it and rips it off, revealing the alien life form's guts encased in a bag in the Droid's chest. grabs hoists him over his head, and tosses him across the platform. dangles off the edge of the platform. He clutches the rim, trying to hold on. The then grabs the staff and charges At the last second, reaches out his hand and uses the Force to retrieve the Droid's laser pistol. The fires several blasts in the stomach area of the alien Droid, and he from the inside out. The smoldering Droid falls to the ground. has killed He pulls himself up onto the platform and walks by the destroyed carcass. So uncivilized . . . brushes himself off. He throws the pistol onto the platform, picks up the electro-staff, and jumps on The trusty beast rears up and takes off into the tunnel system. 124 and the are preparing to board a to the CHANCELLOR's office. enters the hangar. Master Windu, must talk to you. WiNDU: What is it, Skywalker? We are in a hurry. We have just received word that Obi-Wan has destroyed General Grievous. We are on our way to make sure the Chancellor returns emergency powers back to the Senate. He won't give up his power. I've just learned a terrible truth. think Chancellor Palpatine is a Sith Lord. Sith Lord? Yes. The one we have been looking for. WiNDU: How do you know this? He knows the ways of the Force. He has been trained to use the dark side. WiNDU: Are you sure? Absolutely. WiNDU: Then our worst fears have been realized. We must move quickly if the Jedi Order is to survive. Master, the Chancellor is very powerful. You will need my help if you are going to arrest him. WiNDU: For your own good, stay out of this affair. sense a great deal of confusion in you, young Skywalker. There is much fear that clouds your judgment. must go, Master. WiNDU: No. If what you told me is true, you will have gained my trust, but for now remain here. Yes, Master. WiNDU: Wait for us in the Council Chamber until we return. Yes, Master. watches as the leave in their ship. 125 is alone in her apartment, thinking of Anakin. sits alone in the Jedi Council Chamber thinking of You do know, don't you, if the Jedi destroy me, any chance of saving her will be lost. truly, deeply love you. Before die. want you to know. My Lady, are you. . . . Are you all right? can't do this ... can't let her die. rushes out of the Council Chamber and to his speeder. The hangar door opens and he lifts off. 126 The sky is still blue as a lands on the Senate Office Building landing platform. exit the and enter the Senate Office Building. and like gunfighters out of the Old West, walk through the massive hallway, four across. 127 The enter the lobby, raising their arms, and send the Chancellor's aide, flying against the wall, along with They storm into the Chancellor's office. 128 arrives with to arrest Master Windu. take it General Grievous has been destroyed then. must say, you're here sooner than expected. In the name of the Galactic Senate of the Republic, you are under arrest, Chancellor. and the other ignite their lightsabers. Are you threatening me, Master Jedi? The Senate will decide your fate. (burst of anger) am the Senate! Not yet! stands, a laser sword appears out of his cloak sleeve, and he spins toward the It's treason, then. close shot of as the fight begins. Close shots of getting cut down by and continue to fight. Jedi Master and the Sith Lord fight their way down the hallway and into the main office area. is able to use the Force to slam against the wall, but he recovers before the Chancellor can cut him down. lands his speeder, jumps out, and runs down a long corridor toward the Chancellor's office. In the heat of battle, cuts the window behind the Chancellor's desk, and it crashes away. is forced out onto the ledge, which is twenty stories up. They fight over the precipice. arrives to see and fighting. They stop as forces to drop his sword. and start yelling at each other. You are under arrest, My Lord. Anakin! told you it would come to this. was right. The Jedi are taking over. WlNDU: You old fool. The oppression of the Sith will never return. Your plot to regain control of the Republic is over . . . you have lost . . . No! No! You will die! raises his hands, and lightning bolts shoot out. They are blocked by MACE's lightsaber. is pushed back against the window sill. He is a traitor, Anakin. WlNDU: He's the traitor. Stop him! Come to your senses, boy. The Jedi are in revolt. They will betray you, just as they betrayed me. WlNDU: Aarrrrggghhhhh . . . You are not one of them, Anakin. Don't let him kill me. WlNDU: Aarrrrggghhhhh . . . am your pathway to power. have the power to save the one you love. You must choose. You must stop him. WlNDU: Don't listen to him, Anakin. Help me! Don't let him kill me. can't hold on any longer. Ahhhhhhh . . . ahhhhhhh . . . ahhhhhhh . . . pushes out to the edge of the ledge. As the Jedi moves closer, the bolts from Palpatine's hands begin to arch back on him. The Chancellor's face begins to twist and distort. His eyes become yellow as he struggles to intensify his powers. can't ... give up. Help me. am weak ... am too weak. Don't kill me. give up. I'm dying. can't hold on any longer. WlNDU: You Sith disease. am going to end this once and for all. You can't kill him, Master. He must stand trial. WlNDU: He has too much control of the Senate and the Courts. He is too dangerous to be kept alive. I'm too weak. Don't kill me. Please. It is not the Jedi way . . . raises his sword to kill the (continuing) He must live . . . Please don't, please don't . . . need him . . . Please don't . . . Just as is about to slash steps in and cuts off the Jedi's hand holding the lightsaber. As stares at in shock, springs to life. The full force of Palpatine's powerful Bolts blasts He attempts to deflect them with his one good hand, but the force is too great. As blue rays engulf his body, he is flung out the window and falls twenty stories to his death. No more screams. No more moans. lowers his arm. Power! Unlimited power! His face has changed into a horrible mask of evil. looks on in horror. cackles. What have done? sits. You are fulfilling your destin, Anakin. Become my apprentice. Learn to use the dark side of the Force. will do whatever you ask. Good. Just help me save Padme's life. can't live without her. won't let her die. want the power to stop death. To cheat death is a power only one has achieved, but if we work together, know we can discover the secret. kneels before pledge myself to your teachings. To the ways of the Sith. Good. Good. The Force is strong with you. powerful Sith you will become. Henceforth, you shall be known as Darth . . . Vader. Thank you. my Master. Rise, Darth Vader. Palpatine moves over to his desk. 129 winces, closes his eyes, and holds his head. He feels a disturbance in the Force. 130 is putting on his dark cloak: he is now fully Because the Council did not trust you, my young apprentice, believe you are the only Jedi with no knowledge of this plot. When the Jedi learn what has transpired here, they will kill us, along with all the Senators. agree. The Jedi's next move will be against the Senate. Every single Jedi, including your friend Obi-Wan Kenobi, is now an enemy of the Republic. You understand that, don't you? understand, Master. We must move quickly. The Jedi are relentless; if they are not all destroyed, it will be civil war without end. First, want you to go to the Jedi Temple. We will catch them off balance. Do what must be done, Lord Vader. Do not hesitate. Show no mercy. Only then will you be strong enough with the dark side to save Padme. What about the other Jedi spread across the galaxy? Their betrayal will be dealt with. After you have killed all the Jedi in the Temple, go to the Mustafar system. Wipe out Viceroy Gunray and the other Separatist leaders. Once more, the Sith will rule the galaxy, and we shall have peace. 131 goes to the Jedi Temple with a battalion of Clone Troopers. 132 The battle between the and the rages throughout the sinkhole. rides up to Commander, contact your troops. Tell them to move to the higher levels. Very good, sir. starts to move away, then remembers something and returns to (continuing) Oh, by the way, think you'll be needing this. He hands his lightsaber, and the rears up. Thank you, Cody, (smiling) Now let's get a move on. We've got a battle to win here. Yes, sir! and the ride off down the wall of the giant sinkhole. The battle rages throughout the city. (2224,) takes out his comlink and listens to the as, far below, can been seen battling on a landing platform. SlDIOUS: Commander Cody, the time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six. It will be done, My Lord. The disappears, and gestures to a nearby Clone Trooper. Blast him! The battle rages all around and are everywhere. is riding on a cutting down as he races across the battlefield. Suddenly a volley of laser blasts from behind him knocks him and his off the wall of the sinkhole. He looks around just in time to see his are firing on him. falls hundreds of feet to the bottom of the water-filled sinkhole. 133 The sky slowly awakens on the crystal world of Mygeeto. battle rages. Clone troops battle the droid armies across a long bridge. KI-ADI-MUNDi uses his light saber to deflect enemy fire. (1138) exits a Gunship near the entrance to the city. He rallies his to attack the city, then gets a message on his comlink. He stops and moves to one side as a appears on the comlink in the palm of his hand. He moves further into the shadows. SlDIOUS: Commander 1138 . . . Yes, sir. SlDIOUS: The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six. It will be done, My Lord. fades, and the snaps the comlink closed and looks to the main plaza of the city, where is leading the charge. The clones stop. turns around and is blasted by clone fire. He's killed before he can defend himself. 134 column of marches across the forest floor. The of the alien forest creatures of suddenly stop. The Jedi and her brace for an ambush. Steady. . . . steady . . . They all look around for signs of the enemy. moves up behind the Jedi. (continuing) Bly, do you think they're Droids? No. blasts in the back. The fire on her as she hits the ground. Another Jedi, is cutting down a patrol of when a and round a corner and blast the Jedi away. 135 drops his gimer stick, clutches his chest, and rests against a wall. 136 The battle appears to be over. stack destroyed Droids while assess the damage to their equipment. Jedi, talks with standing in a circle around her. Suddenly they reveal their hidden pistols and blast her before she can react. The Jedi is riding on top of a The main cannon of a second tank slowly swings to point right at him and a The cannon fires, and and the disappear in a huge 137 The watches a hologram of Execute Order Sixty-Six. It will be done, My Lord. 138 heads his ship toward a battle on a landing platform. There they are. Land on the nearest platform. 139 The with drop back and blast him out of the sky. 140 Three Speeder Bikes race through the forest. Jedi, is in the lead. The following her drop back and blast her, causing her to crash in a huge 141 stands alone in his private office, illuminated only from a hologram projector beam from above. small stands in front of him. Yes, My Lord. The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six. 142 vista of waterways, high green mesas, and giant tree cities serves as a backdrop for the fierce battle, against with treaded tank-like vehicles. holds his comlink. It will be done, My Lord. snaps his comlink shut. watches from the balcony. The battle rages as and attack coming across the water on and stand on either side of the Jedi Master as he watches the battle below. and walk onto the balcony toward stands looking over the battlefield below. When they are close enough, the reveal their weapons and fire. But faster than the can reveal their weapons, ignites his lightsaber, leaps in the air, and beheads both and fire their weapons as more enter the hall. The Wookiees call out to to follow them. picks up and carries him away. 143 is surrounded and gunned down by 144 walks through the Jedi Temple, where he finds and kills He exits Shaak Ti's room and enters a hallway, where the battle is taking place. 145 enters a room full of huddled in a corner. Master Skywalker, there are too many of them. What are we going to do? looks back at them with a stern expression on his face and ignites his lightsaber. 146 and look out the apartment window. The Chancellor's office indicated Master Anakin returned to the Jedi Temple. Don't worry, My Lady. am sure he will be all right. bursts into tears. 147 The city planet is covered in a hazy glow. column of black smoke can be seen rising in the distance. ORGANA's Speeder flies overhead, straight toward the smoke. 148 The Jedi Temple is on fire. Large plumes of smoke billow toward the sky as lands his Speeder on a Jedi Temple platform. stand guard at the entrance to the Temple. They lower their guns as gets out of his Speeder and walks toward them. What's going on here?!? There's been a rebellion. Don't worry, sir, the situation is under control. The bar the Senator from entering the Temple. (continuing) I'm sorry, sir. No one is allowed entry. The point their guns at and cock them. (continuing) It's time for you to leave, sir. And so it is. reluctantly heads hack toward his Speeder. Suddenly, several turns and sees a ten-year-old Jedi, fighting the Several more join in the fight, followed by (1119), who points at Get him! Shoot him! start firing at The Senator jumps for cover behind his Speeder, starting the engines and pulling out his laser pistol. The cuts down several including before he is overrun and shot. The Speeder takes off with clinging to the side. The fire at it as it disappears into the cityscape. 149 struggles to pull himself into the Speeder as it races along through the cityscape. Finally, he climbs in, just as the Speeder is about to hit a building. steers clear of the building and races away. 150 The Jedi dives below the surface amid a barrage of laser fire. He dives deeper under the water, fumbling in his utility belt for a breathing device. He finds it and puts it in his mouth. He swims underwater until the give up and stop filing. 151 removes the breathing apparatus after coming up from underwater. He starts to climb the rock wall. climbs the wall to the second cave just as pop out of the water with their searchlights glowing. presses himself against the wall of the smaller cave as the search the grotto. One of the begins to enter the cave in which is hiding. presses further into the wall. The light shines on the opposite wall and moves to the back of the cave, illuminating a huge holds his breath. The is confused for a moment, then the lunges at the and consumes it in one bite. The lunge takes him past out of the cave, and into the water. The shines its light on the as the evil creature tries to grab the slinks off toward the back of the cave. He comes upon a nest of They and make horrible sounds. jumps over them and continues on his way through the tunnel system. 152 in modified one-man AT-ST's and Swamp Speeders flash their searchlights across the gloomy lake. The light of one of the AT-ST's spots something floating in the water. It is what's left of a Wookiee catamaran. The body of a dead Wookiee is lying across the stern of the wreckage of the flying boat. There is some movement on the boat. The on the fires a warning shot past the boat. Everyone out of there! about two feet high pops its head over the rail. The creature is covered with mud. His long hair is frizzed out in all directions. Wookiee good . . . eat Wookiee. (crazy little laugh) Did you find something? It's nothing, nothing. (laughs) It's nothing, nothing. All these Wookiees are dead. Move to the east. Yes, sir. Suddenly, climbs up behind the dripping wet, and throws the into the water. Right you are, Chewbacca. Faster that will be. jumps up in the boat, and the takes off his hair. It is Yoda. Stink, this mud does. moment to bathe, give me. covered with mud, jumps into the water. climbs onto the with is out of the water and putting his robes back on. (continuing) Not far, are we, from the emergency ship. Quickly . . . whistles and a large called appears. jumps on the insect's back and they take off. The follow on the The continue to search the swamp. 153 The marches up the hill and stops. The jump down. lands on nearby. goes to a tree and pulls down one of its branches. The ground opens up, and a small rises into the field. opens the door of the pod. Good-bye. Chewbacca and Tarfful, miss you will. Good friends you are. For your help, much gratitude and respect, have. The Wookiees as the Jedi climbs into the and takes off into the dusk sky. 154 walks out of a tunnel onto a huge underground platform with two of his He is stopped by Identification . . . Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan. and his hand them their cards. The check them over and give them back, then and his walk on board his Starship. 155 The platform rises to the surface of the Office Building. The takes off and disappears into the crisp morning sky. 156 is greeted by and Were you able to get hold of a Jedi homing beacon? Yes, sir. We've encountered no opposition. The clones are still a bit confused. It appears no one is in command. That will change soon. Hopefully we will be able to intercept a few Jedi before they walk into this catastrophe. 157 hides from a group of Did you find Kenobi? No one could have survived that fall. He watches them pass. Start loading your men on the ship. Yes, sir. tries to sneak back to the secret platform, down a flight of stairs. 158 makes his way out of the cave and onto General Grievous's secret landing platform. He runs to the Starfighter and climbs into the one-man ship. The Starfighter takes off and disappears into the sky. 159 flies away from the planet Utapau in General Grievous's tiny Starfighter. 160 activates the controls on the Starfighter. He punches in several coordinates and codes. is heard. It quickly speeds up until it is a steady tone. speaks into his comlink. Emergency Code Nine Thirteen ... have no contact on any frequency. Are there any Jedi out there? . . . anywhere . . . is heard- and a image appears. (hologram) . . . Kenobi . . . (continuing) I've locked on. Repeat. The image comes into focus, and it is Master Kenobi?? Senator Organa! My Clone Troops turned on me ... need help. We have just rescued Master Yoda. It appears this ambush has happened everywhere. We're sending you our coordinates. 161 stands before the window of her living room, watching the plume of smoke from the Jedi Temple. enters from the bedroom. My Lady, there's a Jedi fighter docking on the veranda. turns and rushes to the bedroom. 162 walks out to ANAKIN's ship and talks with beeps. Hush! Not so loud! rushes onto the veranda as exits his They embrace. Are you all right? heard there was an attack on the Jedi Temple . . . you can see the smoke from here. I'm fine. I'm fine. came to see if you and the baby are safe. Captain Typho's here, we're safe. What's happening? continues to talk to on the What is going on? and (continuing) You can't be anymore confused than am. The situation is not good. The Jedi have tried to overthrow the Republic . . . can't believe that! couldn't either at first, but it's true. saw Master Windu attempt to assassinate the Chancellor myself. leans over and whispers to Something important is going on! heard a rumor they are going to banish all droids. rather loudly. puts his fingers to his lips. (continuing) Shhhhhh . . . not so loud. quietly. (continuing) Whatever it is, we'll be the last to know. Anakin, what are you going to do? looks down for a moment and then walks away from Padme. will not betray the Republic . . . my loyalties lie with the Chancellor and with the Senate . . . and with you. turns and walks back to Padme. What about Obi-Wan? don't know . . . Many Jedi have been killed. We can only hope that he's remained loyal to the Chancellor. How could this have happened? The Republic is unstable, Padme. The Jedi aren't the only ones trying to take advantage of the situation. There are also traitors in the Senate. stands and reacts ever so slightly. What are you saying? You need to distance yourself from your friends in the Senate. The Chancellor said they will be dealt with when this conflict is over. What if they start an inquisition? I've opposed this war. What will you do if become a suspect? That won't happen. won't let it. Oh, Anakin, I'm afraid. takes in his arms. Have faith, my love. Everything will soon be set right. The Chancellor has given me a very important mission. The Separatists have gathered in the Mustafar system. I'm going there to end this war. Wait for me until return . . . things will be different, promise. They kiss. (continuing) Please, wait for me. will. gets into his Fighter as backs away. (to Artoo) Well, he is under a lot of stress, Artoo. beeps. (continuing) Take care, my little friend. a good-bye, and the fighter takes off. is left alone on the veranda. She starts to cry. comes up to her. (continuing) My Lady, is there anything might do? No thank you, Threepio. snack, perhaps? No. starts to move off. feel so helpless. 163 OBI-WAN's ship docks with Bail Organa's Starcruiser. 164 The door to the main hallway slides open. enters and is greeted by and The three walk down the hallway. You made it. Master Kenobi, dark times are these. Good to see you. it is. You were attacked by your Clones, also? With the help of the Wookiees, barely escape, did. How many other Jedi managed to survive? Heard from no one, have we. saw thousands of troops attack the Jedi Temple. That's why went looking for Yoda. Have we had any contact from the Temple? Received a coded retreat message, we have. It requests all Jedi to return to the Temple. It says that the war is over . . . Well, then we must go back! If there are other stragglers, they will fall into the trap and be killed. It's too dangerous to return. Suggest dismantling the coded signal, do you? Yes, Master. There is too much at stake here, and we need a clearer picture of what has happened. agree. In a dark place we find ourselves ... a little more knowledge might light our way. 165 Workers move across the lava beds, gathering the magma. column of aliens riding giant marches forward. 166 of is in the center of the room. and the watch The plan has gone as you had promised, My Lord. You have done well, Viceroy. When my new apprentice, Darth Vader, arrives, he will take care of you. The hologram disappears. 167 The Republic Cruiser heads toward Coruscant. and sit in the cockpit. We are receiving a message from the Chancellor's office, sir. Send it through. Yes, sir. The pushes some buttons. appears on screen. Senator Organa . . . the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic requests your presence at a special session of Congress. Tell the Chancellor will be there. Very well. He will be expecting you. AMEDDA's image disappears from the screen. It could be a trap. No, don't think so. The Chancellor will not be able to control the thousands of star systems without keeping the Senate intact. If a special session of Congress there is, easier for us to enter the Jedi Temple it will be. 168 and land on Coruscant. The elevator door opens, and they step out. Welcome back, Senator. May see your clearance? Certainly. Thank you, you may proceed. We will take custody of the Jedi. It would be better if we stayed with the Senator. It would be better if they stayed with you. and his go into the Senate. and head for the Jedi Temple. 169 ANAKIN's Jedi Starfighter heads for the hazy blood-red planet of Mustafar. 170 flies over the volcanoes of Mustafar and lands his Jedi Starfighter on a complex of Landing Platforms. His cockpit opens as pops from the ship with a happy Artoo . . . stay with the ship. lets out a sad little and moves back toward the ship. 171 putting on his hood, walks across a walkway upon arriving on Mustafar. 172 appears in the doorway of the control center. Welcome, Lord Vader. We've been expecting you. Everyone in the room looks to him as he raises his hand toward a control panel, and all the exits close. The confused look around in bewilderment. 173 Smoke from the smoldering shell of the Jedi Temple fills the air with a brown haze. 174 stand guard at the entrance of the Jedi Temple. Suddenly there is a flash of a lightsaber, a flurry of confusion, and all of the Clone Troopers are dead on the floor. and stand in the middle of the carnage. There are several battalions of Clone Troopers on every level. Many are dressed as Jedi. Dismantle the coded signal quickly. That group back there, soon discovered will be. 175 The awesome Senate Building looms over the city. The endless traffic continues to clutter the skyline. 176 The Chancellor is in the podium in the center of the vast arena giving a speech. stands to the right of walks through the hallway of the Main Senate Chamber. He enters the Senate Pod of Naboo and sits next to and are in the pod also. . . . and the Jedi Rebellion has been foiled. was held up. What's happening? The Chancellor has been elaborating on a plot by the Jedi, to overthrow the Senate. That's not true! He's been presenting evidence all afternoon. And the Senate will go along with it, just like they always do. The remaining Jedi will be hunted down and defeated. (applause) Any collaborators will suffer the same fate. (applause) These have been trying times, but we have passed the test. 177 and make their way through the Temple, avoiding the They use the Force to distract the when they can. and walk through the ruins of the Temple until they come across the bodies of some students. Not even the younglings survived. Killed not by clones, this Padawan. By a lightsaber, he was. . . .Who?? Who could have done this? 178 ignites his lightsaber, and the panic. The at the controls and the grab their weapons, but it is too late. They are cut down in a flash. The Separatists bang on the doors, and and flee under a table. stone-faced, moves through the room like the grim reaper. Bodies drop everywhere. are cut short as the head of the Banking Clan dies. Then loses his head; and the run into the conference room. 179 The attempt on my life has left me scarred and deformed, but assure you my resolve has never been stronger. Applause. 180 In the hallway, cuts down and alike. He is unstoppable. turns his head-his eyes are yellow. 181 continues his speech at the podium. The war is over. (applause) The Separatists have been defeated, (applause) and the Jedi rebellion has been foiled. We stand on the threshold of a new beginning. There is a long period of Well, this is the moment we discover if he intends to return the Republic to a democracy. In order to ensure our security and continuing stability, the Republic will be reorganized into the first Galactic Empire, for a safe and secure society which assure you will last for ten thousand years. There is a loud, sustained from the Senate. and sit, dumbfounded. (continuing) An empire that will continue to be ruled by this august body, and a sovereign ruler chosen for life . . . The Senate again. and are devastated. begins to cry. (continuing) An empire ruled by the majority . . . Ruled by a new constitution . . . The Senate So this is how liberty dies, with thunderous applause . . . We cannot let this happen. He starts to stand up. stops him. Not now! There will be a time. 182 After everyone in the Main Control Room is dead, moves to the small conference room where and some are hiding. tries to run but is trapped by a dead-end as advances. Stop! Enough, this is not right! is cut down. crawls out from under the table and opens the Main Door, allowing to enter. is cut down, along with appear in the doorway and blast away, causing total destruction. When the firing is over, is gone. Blown away? No. drops from the ceiling behind the and cuts them to pieces before they know what hit them. 183 is the last Separatist leader alive. moves on to find hiding in an alcove. The war is over. Lord Sidious promised us peace ... we only want . . . is cut down in midsentence. 184 stands in a large computer area as looks on, in the hatchway to the Main Control Center. I've recalibrated the code warning all surviving Jedi to stay away. Good . . . For the Clones to discover the recalibration, a long time it will take. To change it back, longer still. Hurry. 185 enters the Main Control Center with and heads for the hologram area. Wait, Master. There is something must know . . . If into the security recordings you go, only pain will you find. must know the truth, Master. moves to a panel and flips some switches. He sees a of slaughtering including the and react. (continuing) It can't be . . . It can't be . . . As surveys the carnage, a enters. turns to and kneels before him. The traitors have been taken care of, Lord Sidious. SlDIOUS: Good . . . good . . . You have done well, my new apprentice. Do you feel your power growing? Yes, My Master. SlDIOUS: Now, Lord Vader, now go and bring peace to the Empire. watches in horror. Tears well up in his eyes. can't watch any more. switches off the hologram. The stand in silence for a few moments. Destroy the Sith, we must. Send me to kill the Emperor. will not kill Anakin. To fight this Lord Sidious, strong enough, you are not. He is like my brother ... cannot do it. Twisted by the dark side, young Skywalker has become. The boy you trained, gone he is . . . Consumed by Darth Vader. How could it have come to this? To question, no time there is. do not know where the Emperor has sent him. don't know where to look. Use your feelings, Obi-Wan, and find him, you will. Visit the new Emperor, my task is. May the Force be with you. May the Force be with you, Master Yoda. 186 Intergalactic Speeder pulls up to the veranda landing of Padme's apartment. 187 The cockpit of the sleek yellow Galactic Speeder opens, and a emerges and walks onto the veranda. An deep in the apartment. The stops before a security curtain that protects the veranda. enters the veranda and approaches the Hello, might help you . . . Oh, it's you, Master Kenobi. Come in, quickly. The security curtain disappears, and the lifts his hood. It is The alarm stops sounding. Has Anakin been here . . . ? Yes . . . right after the attack on the Jedi Temple. comes down the stairs in a robe. leaves. Master Kenobi . . . She embraces Obi-Wan. (continuing) Oh, Obi-Wan, thank goodness . . . you're alive. The Republic has fallen. Padme . . . The Jedi Order is no more . . . know, it's hard to believe everything to which we've dedicated our lives is gone. believe we have been part of a plot hundreds of years in the making. The Senate is still intact, there is some hope. No. Padme . . . It's over . . . The Sith now rule the galaxy as they did before the Republic. The Sith!?! I'm here looking for Anakin . . . When was the last time you saw him? Yesterday. And do you know where he is now? (looks down) No. Padme, need your help. He's in grave danger. From the Sith? From himself . . . Padme, Anakin has turned to the dark side. You're wrong! How could you even say that? have seen a security hologram of him killing younglings. Not Anakin! He couldn't! He was deceived by a lie. We all were. It appears that the Chancellor is behind everything, including the war. Palpatine is the Sith Lord we've been looking for. After the death of Count Dooku, Anakin became his new apprentice. don't believe you ... can't. Padme, must find him. You're going to kill him, aren't you? He has become a very great threat. As moves to sit down, she reveals her pregnancy. can't . . . Anakin is the father, isn't he? looks away. (continuing) I'm so sorry. turns and leaves as stares transfixed, not knowing what to do. She is worried and tormented. takes off in the Speeder. She studies the japor snippet that is hanging around her neck. 188 waits forlornly for his Master in front of the Jedi Starfighter. 189 surveys the slaughter with a crazed look in his eyes. 190 stares out at Mustafar, standing on the control room balcony. 191 small Naboo Skiff rests on a landing platform in the vast congestion of Coruscant. gets out of her Speeder, followed by and My Lady, let me come with you. There is no danger. The fighting is over, and . . . this is personal. bows. As you wish, My Lady . . . but strongly disagree. I'll be all right, Captain. He goes to the speeder and gets in. (continuing) This is something must do myself. Besides, Threepio will look after me. Oh, dear. takes off and and board the small shadow moves out from under the It is He quickly jumps on the retracting ramp as the takes off. 192 chatters away as breaks down in tears, the painful reality sinking in. Green light. Do you know that think I'm beginning to get the hang of this flying business. stows away on Padme's ship. The ship lifts from the landing platform and heads into the traffic lanes. 193 appears before in his office at the bottom of the Senate Arena. The Separatists are taken care of, My Master. SlDIOUS: It is finished, then. You have restored peace and justice to the galaxy. You have done well, Lord Vader. Thank you, My Master. 194 Hologram of Sidious speaks with Anakin in the Mustafar control room. SlDIOUS: Send a message to the ships of the Trade Federation. Tell them the Separatist leaders have been wiped out. Grievous and Dooku have been destroyed. All droid units must shut down immediately. Very good, My Lord. sees Padme's ship arriving on the screen and goes out to meet her. 195 The sleek lands on the Mustafar landing platform near Anakin's runs up to the as the ramp lowers. runs to him. Padme, saw your ship . . . They embrace. Oh, Anakin! It's all right, you're safe now. What are you doing out here? was so worried about you. Obi-Wan told me terrible things. What things? He said you have turned to the dark side . . . that you killed younglings. Obi-Wan is trying to turn you against me. He cares about us. Us??! He knows . . . He wants to help you. Is Obi-Wan going to protect you? He can't ... he can't help you. He's not strong enough. Anakin, all want is your love. Love won't save you, Padme. Only my new powers can do that. At what cost? You are a good person. Don't do this. won't lose you the way lost my mother! I've become more powerful than any Jedi has ever dreamed of and I've done it for you. To protect you. Come away with me. Help me raise our child. Leave everything else behind while we still can. Don't you see, we don't have to run away anymore. have brought peace to the Republic. am more powerful than the Chancellor. can overthrow him, and together you and can rule the galaxy. Make things the way we want them to be. don't believe what I'm hearing . . . Obi-Wan was right. You've changed. don't want to hear any more about Obi-Wan. The Jedi turned against me. Don't you turn against me. don't know you anymore. Anakin, you're breaking my heart. I'll never stop loving you, but you are going down a path can't follow. Because of Obi-Wan? Because of what you've done . . . what you plan to do. Stop, stop now. Come back! love you. (seeing Obi-Wan) Liar! turns around and. sees standing in the doorway of the Naboo Cruiser. No! You're with him. You've betrayed me! You brought him here to kill me! Anakin. swear ... ... reaches out, and grabs her throat as she starts to choke. Let her go, Anakin. What have you and she been up to? Let her go! releases his grip on the unconscious and she crumples to the ground. You turned her against me. You have done that yourself. You will not take her from me. throws off his cloak. Your anger and your lust for power have already done that. flings off his cloak. (continuing) You have allowed this Dark Lord to twist your mind until now . . . until now you have become the very thing you swore to destroy. They circle each other until is near He places his hand on her. Don't lecture me, Obi-Wan. see through the lies of the Jedi. do not fear the dark side as you do. have brought peace, justice, freedom, and security to my new Empire. Your new Empire? Don't make me kill you. Anakin, my allegiance is to the Republic ... to democracy. If you're not with me, you're my enemy. Only a Sith Lord deals in absolutes. will do what must. (ignites his lightsaber) You will try. ignites his lightsaber. lashes out at and they begin a ferocious sword fight. throws at using the Force. They work their way off the landing platform and into the main entry hallway. kicks and drops to a lower level. his concern and rushes to the unconscious PADME's aid. 196 enters, using the Force to throw two against the wall, knocking them unconscious. turns his chair toward stands behind SIDIOUS's desk. hear a new apprentice, you have. Emperor, or should call you Darth Sidious. SlDIOUS: Master Yoda, you survived. Surprised? SlDIOUS: Your arrogance blinds you, Master Yoda. Now you will experience the full power of the dark side. The Dark Lord raises his arms, and shoot out, surrounding is picked up and thrown across the room, hitting the wall and sliding down in a crumpled heap. chuckles. 197 and move their fight toward the main control center. As the laser swords fly, bits of the hallway are cut up. and jump and use every trick in the Jedi book. 198 tries to drag on board the Naboo Cruiser. pokes his head out of the ship's doorway. What are you doing? You're going to hurt her. Wait!! starts down the ramp. 199 leaves the room. approaches a stunned SlDIOUS: have waited a long time for this moment, my little green friend. At last, the Jedi are no more. Not if anything have to say about it, Lord Sidious. uses the Force to throw back, knocking him clear over his desk and onto the floor in a heap. (continuing) At an end your rule is and not short enough it was, must say. flies through the air, cape flapping, heading toward the exit. At the last second, flies into the exit and stops the Dark Lord. (continuing) If so powerful you are, why leave?? ignites his lightsaber. SlDIOUS: You will not stop me. Darth Vader will become more powerful than either of us. ignites his lightsaber. Faith in your new apprentice, misplaced may be, as is your faith in the dark side of the Force. Their swords The battle is extremely fast and furious. 200 View screens around and as they work their way into the Control Room. The fighting is intense. is on the defensive as he jumps up on the table view screen in the center of the room. Don't make me destroy you, Master. You're no match for the dark side. I've heard that before, Anakin . . . but never thought I'd hear it from you. forces back into the Conference Room where the quarters are much closer. Sparks fly everywhere. jumps onto the conference table. slides across the table, knocking over. grabs ANAKIN’s lightsaber as he falls. uses the Force to summon his dropped lightsaber. does the same. 201 seeks refuge in the vast Senate Chamber. He gets into the Chancellor's Podium and it starts to rise up into the Arena. makes a giant leap into the control pod. The sword fighting is intense in the confined space. 202 The battle intensifies. (continuing) The flaw of power is arrogance. stands looking at his former apprentice for a moment. You hesitate . . . the flaw of compassion. and lock sabers. puts out his hand to use the Force to push away. puts out his hand to block Both combatants are blasted backwards onto the control panels. They regain their footing and the battle continues. kicks away. They battle around the room, and eventually the door to the exterior is knocked open. They continue battling out onto the balcony. 203 unleashes a ferocious assault on causing him to almost go over the edge. The Dark Lord drops his lightsaber but recovers with a from his hands that surrounds is deflecting the Sith Lord's lightning bolts. The energy bolts begin to arc back on the Emperor. It looks as if the Dark Lord is doomed. Destroy you will, just as Master Kenobi, your apprentice will destroy. jumps to a lower Senate Pod. reaches out with one hand, and a Senate pod is released from its mooring and heads toward the Podium. uses the Force to hurl pod after pod at who ducks and jumps from one flying pod to another. leaps away from the pods. He uses the Force to hold one pod suspended in the air. The pod spins and throws it back at who leaps away at the last moment. leaps after him, but quickly turns and aims the full force of his energy bolts at the tiny green Jedi, catching him in mid-air and throwing him back hard against the Podium. The force causes to drop his lightsaber. blocks the lightning and throws backwards off the podium. is knocked off the Podium and falls several hundred feet to the base of the Podium. follows in his pod, searching for 204 forces down a narrow balcony outside the Control Room. He rips objects off the wall and throws them at as he pushes him further and further along the walkway. The balcony ends, and is trapped. He looks over the balcony and into a river of lava. cuts apiece of the balcony railing off, along with a control panel. and a protective ray shield around the superstructure disappears. It tumbles into the molten abyss, disappearing in a puff of smoke. small pipe connects the Control Center to the Main Collection Plant. has no choice but to tightrope-walk out across the lava river while fighting 205 following jumps down onto the flexing pipe, lands, and resumes fighting. 206 and work their way across the small pipe, fighting ferociously as they go. slips, throws his lightsaber up in the air, grabs on to the pipe, swings around, grabs on to an upper pipe, retrieves his lightsaber, and lands back on the original pipe. They continue to fight across the pipe until they reach the Main Collection Plant. 207 squishes his way through a mass of wires in a small chute. He talks on his comlink. Hurry. Careful timing we will need. (in speeder) There aren't many troops on this side. Activate your homing beacon when you're ready. 208 Senate pod with (4477) and climb up to where and are waiting. Beneath the Main Podium, search for Yoda 's body. There is no sign of his body, sir. Then he is not dead. Double your search. Yes sir. Right away, sir. (to Mas Amedda) Tell Captain Kagi to prepare my shuttle for immediate takeoff. Yes, Master. sense Lord Vader is in danger. walks into the Arena hallway. descends down to the floor of the Arena, where an intense search is taking place. rubberneck in scattered pods. 209 and battle on the top of the multispired collection panels, jumping from one to the other. At the end of the collection cluster, a huge spray of lava covers the attachments that hold up the collectors. The frame begins to melt. It's raining lava. Both and run for cover under the collection cluster. They continue to fight in the lava rain, darting from cover to attack, then quickly retreating to cover. Support for the entire structure begins to fall away, and the collection cluster falls into the lava river. The Jedi continue their fight, climbing to the highest point on the tower as the rest begins to melt away as it rides the swift current down the river. It bends toward the lava as they get out toward the end. The fighting gets fierce. gets to the end and is trapped. The tower slowly starts to sink under the lava. 210 in his open Cockpit Speeder, flies along next to the roof eave of the huge Senate Building. He slows and moves closer to a long row of recessed lights. Suddenly falls out of one of the light recesses and lands in the Speeder. guns it and heads away from the Senate Building. 211 straightens himself out. Into exile must go. Failed, have. and fly into the traffic of the city. 212 realizes he is getting very close to the edge of the lava falls. He grabs a rope and leaps from the collection arm. follows. and continue their sword fight hanging from cables as they swing past each other. 213 carefully lifts into his arms. nervously looks on. am being careful. I've got a good hold on her, but . . . I'm worried about my back. hope it's able to hold up under this weight. carries into the Naboo Skiff. 214 From their cables, and both spot something that causes them to stop fighting. The lava river ahead drops off in a tremendous lava fall. are heard as the main part of the collector starts to break away and move toward the lava fall. looks around and sees a small floating platform making its way toward the tower. does a double hack-flip and lands squarely on the floating platform. He immediately leans to one side and moves away from the tower. realizes he is doomed as the entire tower heads for the falls. In the distance he sees some He swings back to the tower, climbs up and makes a running leap and miraculously lands on The is confused and chatters to his The giant collector goes over the lava flow and disappears in the mist of sparks below. heads for the bank of the lava river, but Anakin's is faster. He catches up with his old Master. and continue the swordfight. They battle away, balancing on the tiny platform and puzzled standing on the Droid, approaches on the work platform. have failed you, Anakin. was never able to teach you to think. and confront each other on the lava river. should have known the Jedi were plotting to take over . . . From the Sith!!! Anakin, Chancellor Palpatine is evil. From the Jedi point of view! From my point of view, the Jedi are evil. Well, then you are lost! This is the end for you, My Master. wish it were otherwise. jumps and flips onto WAN's platform. The fighting continues again until jumps toward the safety of the black sandy edge of the lava river. He yells at Anakin. It's over, Anakin. have the high ground. You underestimate my power! Don't try it. follows, and cuts his young apprentice at the knees, then cuts off his left arm in the blink of an eye. tumbles down the embankment and rolls to a stop near the edge of the lava. struggles to pull himself up the embankment with his mechanical hand. His thin leather glove has been burned off. He keeps sliding down in the black sand. (continuing) . . . You were the Chosen One! It was said that you would, destroy the Sith, not join them. It was you who would bring balance to the Force, not leave it in Darkness. picks up Anakin's light saber and begins to walk away. He stops and looks back. hate you! You were my brother, Anakin. loved you. clothing blows into the lava river and ignites. Suddenly bursts into flames and starts 215 looks in horror as becomes engulfed in flames. can't watch him as he struggles to climb the embankment, covered in flames. He runs back to Padme's ship as drops, smoldering, near the top of the lava pit. 216 makes his way to the He looks for Padme. sticks his head out the door of the Master Kenobi! We have Miss Padme on board. Please, please hurry. We should leave this dreadful place. runs on board the Naboo Skiff. 217 lies on a cot or bed inside the ship. walks over and checks on her. Obi-Wan? Is Anakin all right? looks at her sadly and does not answer. He brushes her hair back. Padme drops back into unconsciousness. watches over her. rides in the co-pilot's station. He sits looking pensive. drives. 218 crawls up the bank, his body smoking. shuttle flies overhead and lands. 219 An Imperial Shuttle closes its wings and settles on the highest of the Mustafar Landing Platforms. exits the craft, followed by 220 walks in front of the on his way to get to Anakin at the edge of the lava pit. 221 discovers what remains of and checks him out. He turns to the Anakin! Anakin! There he is. He's still alive. Get a medical capsule, immediately. Yes sir. Right away. Several of the rush off as SIDlOUS puts his hand on ANAKIN's forehead. 222 On the isolated asteroid of Polis Massa, meditates. Failed to stop the Sith Lord, have. Still much to learn, there is ... Patience. You will have time. did not. When became one with the Force made a great discovery. With my training, you will be able to merge with the Force at will. Your physical self will fade away, but you will still retain your consciousness. You will become more powerful than any Sith. Eternal consciousness. The ability to defy oblivion can be achieved, but only for oneself. It was accomplished by a Shaman of the Whills. It is a state acquired through compassion, not greed. . . . to become one with the Force, and influence still have . . . power greater than all, it is. You will learn to let go of everything. No attachment, no thought of self. No physical self. great Jedi Master, you have become, Qui-Gon Jinn. Your apprentice gratefully become. thinks about this for a minute, then enters the room and breaks his meditation. Excuse me, Master Yoda. Obi-Wan Kenobi has made contact. 223 The have placed in a medical capsule. They float the wounded Sith Lord into the belly of the follows the capsule into the ship. The ship takes off. 224 lands the Naboo Cruiser on the landing platform of the isolated post of Polis Massa. and along with a are waiting as the ramp lowers and emerges, carrying the unconscious in his arms, followed by and We'll take her to the medical center, quickly. 225 The shuttle lands. and leave the shuttle. ANAKIN's body is carried along in a floating medical capsule. 226 work, on in an operating theater. and one of the enter an observation room where and are waiting. Medically, she is completely healthy. For reasons we can't explain, we are losing her. She's dying? We don't know why. She has lost the will to live. We need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies. Babies??!! She's carrying twins. Save them, we must. They are our last hope. The rushes back to the operating room. and watch, greatly puzzled. It s some kind of reproductive process, think. 227 in the medical capsule, is lifted onto a table in the Rehab Center. go to work on him. has new legs and a new arm. 228 The are being delivered as and watch. is in the operating theater with He takes her hand. Don't give up, Padme. winces from the pain. The is holding the It's a boy. Luke . . . can only offer up a faint smile. She struggles to touch the baby on the forehead. ... and a girl. . . . Leia. and watch from an adjoining space. 229 dressed in his black body armor, lies on the table. Nose plugs are inserted and the mask drops from above, sealing tightly. The helmet is fitted and begins breathing. 230 leans over and softly speaks to her. You have twins, Padme They need you . . . hang on. can't . . . winces again and takes OBI-WAN's hand. She is holding Anakin's japor snippet. Save your energy. Obi-Wan . . . there . . . is good in him. know there is ... still . . . last gasp, and she dies. Obi-Wan studies the necklace. 231 hovers around the periphery of a group of who are working on paces in the foreground. approaches the Dark Lord. My Lord, the construction is finished ... he lives. Good. Good. The moves back to the table where lies. The table begins to move upright. moves in next to (continuing) Lord Vader, can you hear me? with his dark mask and helmet, moves up into the frame until he is in a Yes, My Master. looks around the room. (continuing) Where is Padme? Is she safe, is she all right? moves closer to the half droid/half man. I'm afraid she died. ... it seems in your anger, you killed her. emanates from Vader's mask. Suddenly everything in the room begins to implode, including some of the couldn't have! She was alive! felt her! She was alive! It's impossible! No!!! breaks his bonds to the table, and steps forward, waving his hands, causing objects to fly around the room. deflects the objects, but some of the aren't so lucky. echo throughout the Center. 232 ORGANA's Starcruiser approaches the city of Theed. 233 and sit around a conference table. Pregnant, she must still appear. Hidden, safe, the children must be kept. We must take them somewhere the Sith will not sense their presence. Split up, they should be. My wife and will take the girl. We've always talked of adopting a baby girl. She will be loved with us. And what of the boy? To Tatooine. To his family, send him. will take the child and watch over him. Master Yoda, do you think Anakin's twins will be able to defeat Darth Sidious? Strong the Force runs, in the Skywalker line. Hope, we can . . . Done, it is. Until the time is right, disappear we will. leaves the conference room. stops (continuing) Master Kenobi, wait a moment. In your solitude on Tatooine, training have for you. Training?? An old friend has learned the path to immortality. Who? One who has returned from the netherworld of the Force to train me . . . your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn. Qui-Gon? But, how could he accomplish this? The secret of the Ancient Order of the Whills, he studied. How to commune with him. will teach you. will be able to talk with him? How to join the Force, he will train you. Your consciousness you will retain, when one with the Force. Even your physical self, perhaps. 234 followed by and approaches and Captain Antilles. Yes, Your Highness. I'm placing these droids in your care. Treat them well. Clean them up. Have the Protocol Droid's mind wiped. Oh, no. 235 walks with other line the street as a flowered, covered coffin is drawn by follow the casket. PADME's hand clutches the japor snippet. 236 small escape pod hurls toward the swamp planet and disappears in the mist. The pod has landed, and descends the ramp, surveying the unfamiliar terrain. 237 Star Destroyer is surrounded by On the bridge of the Star Destroyer stands the and walks along the bridge to join the and The camera to reveal the huge frame structure which is the beginning of the 238 The ship approaches the surface of Alderaan. 239 The sits on a balcony looking out over the awesome mountains of Alderaan. brings a small baby to her. She takes her and rocks her. 240 rides up to the moisture farm homestead on an He dismounts, takes the out of a papoose on his back, and walks toward who walks over to greet him. They talk for a moment, and turns the baby over to the young homesteader. walks to who is standing on the ridge near the homestead. leaves as and the watch the twin suns set. Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Writers : George Lucas Genres : Sci-Fi Adven