Written by Roberto Orci & Alex Kurtzman November, 2007 15 we a And then a 15 -- breathing hard -- straining, harder and harder -- until finally we a -- and we... The image is spectacular, aglow in a beautiful just born, held in a It is being cleaned; warm water runs down its face and body. the (female, 60's) who holds and cleans the baby as it Another, younger, Midwife can be seen behind her, assisting with the pitchers of water. As she cleans the baby, she says to someone He is strong. The baby, now calm, gets He is then gently held out to the new late 20's. An original beauty. She lies on a divan, spent but eager to hold her first child. She tenderly takes the infant into her arms, tears in her eyes, mesmerized. She holds the wrapped baby tight and whispers sweetly: ... hello. the standing at the rear of the room. She raises an eyebrow as she quietly speaks: The baby is healthy. Why does she cry? (a beat; then) She is human. distant, quiet -- and the elder Midwife stands, looking into the distance. And this is when we see, for the first time, that the Midwife has Sarek arrives. The Midwife moves away -- we on Amanda, who looks up for a moment, clearly disquieted. planet of massive, tortured distant cities constructed atop and underneath them. in the mid-ground kicks up dust, backlit by the sun, as it traces the horizon. We revealing a built seamlessly into a rocky mountainside. The speeder parks outside the home -- (late 40's, a Vulcan) comes out to the balcony through the rear doors of the home. He moves to Amanda and kneels. He looks at the child -- his child -- and says: Well done. She looks at him for a beat, then says, flatly -- with just enough rancor: Thanks. He regards her. Knows he's in -- Your tone suggests disappointment. The Science Council required my presence for a session regarding-- Don't do that. You knew wanted you here. The Vulcan Midwives share a look. Sarek glances at them. Nods. The two women excuse themselves. Sarek reaches over, touches a small touchpad -- the He says, clinically: As you are aware, the Vulcan male is traditionally not present at the moment of delivery. Well traditionally, I'm not the one giving birth. (then) moved here -- to another planet -- to be with you. needed you to be with me today. Holding my hand and telling me I'm doing great, even when I'm just... breathing the best can. Sad that she has to tell him this at all, she just looks back at the baby -- finding comfort in his innocence. Sarek considers this. He moves closer to her. Whispers intimately: You are correct. should have been here. am sorry. And with her free hand, she pulls Sarek closer -- and kisses him. And the two look at the baby. had a thought. That we might name the child after one of our respected early society-builders. His name was "Spock". She looks at the baby, not immediately taken by the name. Your silence does not suggest enormous enthusiasm. No... Spock. (smiles, touches his face) ... Spock. She looks at Sarek: Spock it is. The child has your eyes. She pulls back the baby's swaddling, revealing his ears. She gently rubs the top of his right ear -- revealing a small, soft pointed ... and your ears. And off the image of this half-human, half-Vulcan, we... And over we an -- -- and the -- and finally the and we With we a corridor with and -- our sensors haven't made -- no sir, it looked like a sense of the anomaly? lightning storm in the middle -- how far are we from the of space -- Klingon Neutral Zone? -- 150,000 kilometers, but the vessel is not Klingon, Sir, its registry doesn't match any recorded profile -- The doors part and we enter -- a flurry of activity -- the they are approaching on the Robau moves to the center -- then he asks: Report. -- turning to the ship's 32, all-American face, swiveling in a console chair to Sir, new contact bearing zero-three-four. Are they transmitting on any Negative, Captain -- all frequency? communications appear to be shut down. Hail the ship. What's the Nothing even close, Sir. closest match on registry? Robau moves to Pitts: Any response? No Sir -- hails met with silence. Maybe they're incapable -- any identifiable damage? Negative, Sir -- but our readings seem confused-- Confused? -- not only is the ship unregistered -- but even its construction materials seem unrecognizable. Robau sits in the captain's chair his eyes on the ship as they approach -- and we on the -- -- He doesn't even realize that he says: ... oh my God... (to himself, boggled) lightning storm... then this... (to deck) Signal all departments: first contact protocols. Looks like we have someone new on the block. All Stop. And in the endless vacuum of space, and in the Kelvin appears as a dot, coming to a stop in front of the gigantic that is the Narada -- Crew members are glued to their telemetry, working consoles: Sir, should we initiate an invasive scan? That could be seen as an act of provocation -- all readings passive-- Suddenly, a -- Sir, have a reading -- they've locked weapons on us! -- Red alert! Arm weapons! -- as -- The Narada a -- -- then fracturing into a multi-hit projectile -- Officers brace for impact -- Torpedo locked on us at 320 degrees, mark two -- incoming -- Evasive pattern Delta-5! fast! direct hit several decks along the of the ship -- In the massive Engine Room, a -- Captain Robau helps a fallen up from the floor -- then, on his chair com.: Damage report! with: Moving with the Kelvin's Our shields did nothing, Sir! Never seen anything like it! Weapons off-line! Main power at 38 percent! As the crew regains their footing, the First Officer pulls himself to his console, true fear in his eyes as he places an inter-ship call -- it's -- his fear grows with every passing -- then, we 25, answers her communicator -- she lies on an exam table, afraid -- and pregnant. This is -- what was that-- what's happening?! But the First Officer is just relieved that she's still alive: -- you're okay-- thank God-- where are you? Medical bay-- had a few close contractions-- I'm fine-- what was that? Just sit tight-- stay there-- we'll be fine-- Or maybe not: They're firing another, Captain! -- it pieces the Kelvin. Chief Engineer past us -- running down the hall suddenly as a -- and she's -- the finally getting sucked out too! -- life support failing on -- this is the Kelvin, decks seven through thirteen! attemping to reach Starfleet We have confirmed casualties, command on subspace! Repeat -- Sir! Kelvin, under attack by unknown aggressor! -- shields at eleven percent -- were our shields even up? and dropping! Ten percent -- That was like nothing I've we're at nine! Eight percent! ever seen -- this ship can not Seven! We're dropping here! take another hit like that! Six! All remaining power to forward shields! Prepare the shuttles f-- And he They all do. fucking is now on their -- the of the Narada, whom we'll come to know as My commander requests the presence of your captain in order to negotiate a cease-fire. You will come aboard our ship via shuttlecraft. Your refusal would be unwise. Screen goes All eyes on Robau... and he feels them. tense, horrible moment. Finally, to the First Officer: Walk with me. The First Officer follows Robau As they walk, briskly: If don't report within fifteen minutes, execute general order 13. Sir, we could issue a mayday call to-- (frightened, but firm) There is no help for us out here. If we're going down, we're taking them with us -- you save as many as you can. ... aye, Captain. Robau heads into a waiting turns -- they lock eyes, knowing what this means. Finally: You're Captain now. Mr. Kirk. He's gone. And we realize this is Jim's father. All eyes on Kirk as he enters -- moves to the captain's chair. Sits. Not a small moment. Speaking his first words as Captain: Lieutenant Pitts. Transfer Robau's vital signs to the main view screen. Yessir. In a moment, Robau's appear on various monitors -- his all of it. of his is now -- Vitals on line. (slightly awkward) -- thank you. as the -- we as the doors open and Captain Robau gets out -- moves quickly -- hurries down a catwalk -- Robau enters a shuttle -- to life. He moves to the cockpit -- starts the vehicle up -- Computer, initiate departure sequence. and the craft as it disembarks -- Sparks dripping from the ceiling, everyone is motionless -- eyes on the monitors -- and we're -- the of Robau's heart might as well be representing his own. He realizes he's sweating -- wipes his forehead as: The shuttle's pulling out of main bay, Sir. want to see him -- floodlights please. Two on the Kelvin's dish -- and turn, out the lens -- landing on the as it leaves the heading toward the imposing Narada. Backlit by the distant floodlights, Robau remains steely-eyed as he moves for the darkened ship -- nerves -- And Robau's -- the tension they all feel: His heart rate's elevated-- He's scared. He's brave. That's what he is. Robau watches as he gets closer, the over the of the shuttle -- but then -- as the small shuttle seems to get swallowed up by the massive forward-facing spires of the Narada -- the distant floodlights creating everywhere. gigantic -- and the shuttle enters the Narada's main -- the door -- And everyone is just motionless and silent. Only Robau's can be away. George's eyes glued ahead -- as he faces the shuttle door, considering his fate. Finally the -- standing there are eight brandishing He steps down. They grab him, hard -- he's -- -- -- and we the absolutely the insane architecture of the interior of this dark, wet, dripping ship -- Robau is led into the enormous, dark bridge. dozen Romulans at controls. Robau does his level best to portray confidence as he is led up a walkway to Behind him, sitting silhouetted and motionless, turned away and looking off, is his captain. presence always felt in this scene. This is Ayel touches a panel, then into the air before Robau. (we will refer to it as the Are you familiar with this craft? Robau regards it. Then: Who is your commander? (silence, then re: Nero) Is it him? You will speak only to me. Then ask your commander what right he has to attack a Federation vessel. That was hardly an attack. My commander will easily destroy your ship. If you do not respond to the question. Robau considers the hologram again. And what his answer might mean for the fate of his crew. I've never seen it. Or any ship like it. Are you familiar with -- or better, know the location of -- Ambassador Spock? Ayel has thrown another -- who appears to be 75 earth-years old. The baby, born just three years earlier. Robau is as confused as we are... am unfamiliar with Ambassador Spock. final question. What is the current stardate? (the fuck?) ... Stardate? ... it's 2233.04. (finally) ... hey, where are you from--? Suddenly: Nero's activated his -- Robau's vitals go dead. as a -- They're launching again! Evasive! Evasive! Delta-Five maneuver! Fire full-spread! The Kelvin as it -- another -- it -- some miss, Debris Green from under the floor grating -- I'm initiating General Order 13! Set self-destruct for maximum matter- antimatter yield! Two minute countdown! Yessir! want auto-pilot targeted for their fuel cells! Sir, unable to locate the ship's power source! Then just target the damn thing dead center! We got bigger problems: the first hit destroyed auto-pilot! The only way we're gonna ram that ship is to fly manual control! as this lands. More honorable than terrified: -- then I'll do it myself -- get to the shuttles, now! (no one moves until:) Agony in the faces as they reluctantly hurry off -- Kirk takes the Captain's chair, hits the All decks, this is the Captain speaking -- evacuate the ship immediately, get to your designated shuttle crafts -- around Winona, in fucking labor now -- being transferred onto a wheelchair by the Doctor and Nurse-- -- repeat: evacuate ship and get to designated shuttles -- that's George's voice -- what's happening? We're packing it up -- you'll deliver in the shuttle! -- and she's on the move, out the door as her -- she answers -- -- George! Alone now on the bridge, piloting this massive craft by himself - - George talks to Winona from the Captain's chair -- have medical shuttle 37 standing by, get to it now -- can you do that? Yes -- where are you? for a moment as he hesitates -- his eyes glued to the screens as he pilots -- I'm on my way. Good-- and George, it's coming-- our baby, it's coming now. on him, his heart shattering -- having to out-maneuver incoming torpedoes, piloting the ship to its doom -- still, he forces optimism: I'll see you in a minute, sweetheart. He disconnects -- another -- he the ship, -- The Kelvin -- its scramble to their shuttles as the ship -- and we find among them, being through the madness. The Med-Team with Winona in the wheelchair-- it's - - and for Winona, a huge contraction -- -- Agh! That was-- that was a big one! -- as they put her into the shuttle bed: Just keep breathing, Honey, you're gonna be just fine-- (through the pain) -- the baby, too, right? -- the baby too. As George Kirk pilots, he checks the monitors -- one reads the and another reads (36,054 Another screen that shows stats of -- more leaving as we glance at the screen -- but 34 The is in the viewscreen -- he hits the comlink: Captain to shuttle 37 -- is my wife on board? The is readying the controls -- Yessir, she is-- need you to go now, d'you hear me? We're waiting for you, Sir-- No-- go, take off, immediately. ... yessir! Shuttle Pilot works the controls -- and Winona, in the back, feels the shuttle -- Wait! We can't go, my husband isn't here yet! Please! -- but she's suddenly as another hits -- You'll need to push now-- are you ready? Clamps holding the shuttle the and the shuttle -- George hits -- a -- then The shuttle's leaving-- where are you? As George heading for the massive alien ship: My love? Listen carefully, okay? Winona, holding her communicator -- -- we're about to have this baby -- Sweetheart... I'm not going to be able to be there. And she just stares -- realizing what's happening -- that he's been made Captain -- that there was an evacuation -- and somehow she just Tears come to her eyes -- -- no-- no, no-- wait-- want you to hear me. Please. Are you still on the ship? No- -- There's no other way-- my - no, you need to be here-- love-- you know all want-- -- George, can't do this all want in the world is to without you-- be with you-- (crying now) -- please -- don't d--! -- but she's -- Okay-- you need to push. -- and she does -- the shuttle and -- -- and the shuttle the Kelvin bay -- turning to join of other shuttles, all heading off in escape -- As George -- we Winona -- giving birth to their baby -- and we're between a husband and wife that will never see each other again, as the Kelvin avoiding -- the shuttle as the Doctor and Nurse help Winona -- and we're as he -- and -- as he says-- Hey! Hey, so what is it? -- it's a boy. It's a boy? Yeah? And now we see Winona, handed this beautiful little boy. And she cries, just looking at him -- Tell me... tell me about him-- please-- He's-- he's beautiful, he looks like you. Heartsick, George laughs -- glances at the -- 20 -- oh God... George, you should be here -- know-- so what should we call him, huh? We could name him after your father. Tiberius? Are you kidding me? No, that's the worst-- we'll name him after your dad-- let's call him Jim. ... Jim. Jim it is. Through the -- he's -- the ship within the enormous Narada blades -- George scared now -- Sweetheart? Sweetheart? love you. Can you hear me? -- yes-- yes, hear you... -- love you. love y-- -- his as -- -- the Kelvin -- an and-- George's voice goes -- confusion washes over her face -- suddenly -- she looks over, with wet devastated eyes -- -- what she sees is the -- quickly in the vacuum of space -- and she's -- holding her new baby who just lost a father -- his life altered forever... The shuttle with the others... for a long beat. Then to see -- still raining from the explosion -- and work to stabilize the ship -- we arrive at Nero, who, with small specks of on his face, just at the fucking -- he's Ayel works a monitor, yelling out something (in Romulan) to one of their men -- and as a result: Gargantuan from the ship like otherworldly -- and the ship begins to -- but then -- a fucking -- then -- -- And we're on Ayel as he witnesses, on his monitor, ships, popping up -- which is when they a -- speaking -- and we Trespassing vessel: you have entered the jurisdiction of the Klingon Empire. Power down and prepare to be boarded or you will be destroyed. Eyes wide, Ayel turns to Nero, still staring at Spock's image: in Romulan) Commander Nero -- we're surrounded. Finally Nero looks up. in Romulan) Sir-- what are your orders? And we as our then we a young 11 years old. He's standing in an abstract space -- and -- questions -- that he's answering as they appear, then disappear: What is the square root of 2,396,304? -- one-thousand-five-hundered- forty-eight -- -- Correct. What is the central assumption of Quantum -- everything that can happen Cosmology? does happen, in equal and parallel universes -- -- Correct. Identify the 20th century earth composers of the following musical progression: -- Paul McCartney and John Lennon. -- Correct And we find -- then -- all in these odd spaces -- until we to reveal a large Vulcan -- white "bowls", sunk into the dark ground, where walk, hands behind their backs, surveying this mass "mental martial arts" test. We're on as she gets an answer wrong -- Then -- who gets an answer wrong -- and An reveals as the Until only one bowl remains. Spock's. He finishes his last question. Gets it right. as the Your score is one-hundred percent. Congratulations. Spock. Off his face, we as Spock collects his things. As he does, three young walk up behind him. Spock glances at them, then back to his things. presume you've prepared new insults for today. Your mother lies with many men. Spock just Tries to ignore the fact that have no such information. You are neither human, nor Vulcan -- and therefore, have no place in the universe. (swallowing that too) This is your thirty-fifth attempt to elicit an emotional response from me. Logic dictates you would cease by now. Look. He has human eyes. They look sad, don't they? Perhaps an emotional response requires physical stimuli. And Bully #2 Spock -- who stumbles back, almost falling into one of the bowls. He looks up as: He's a traitor, you know. Your father. For marrying her. Spock stares -- we see him fighting the urge, but he's unable -- They land inside -- Spock cries, flailing as he punches Bully #2! The other two stand atop the bowl, stunned -- shocked -- unsure what the hell to do -- and we Spock, chastened, sitting glumly on a bench. massive seen through the window behind him. His parents at a distance down the hall: -- where I'm from, when someone hits you, you hit back- - how is that not logical? -- Spock had no reasonable -- They pick on him -- they expectation of being tease him -- every day. physically injured -- -- Which is precisely when reason must guide his actions -- want him to embrace above all. Vulcan, you know that... but he has to be himself-- which means, occasionally, being -- His "humanity" is very the human. source of his ostracism. -- When Vulcans get disgusted with each other, they never just walk away, do they? -- No. -- Well humans do. And Amanda walks away, leaving Sarek standing there. He turns -- sees his son down the corridor. Approaches. And we're on Spock, studying the fear in his eyes. His father stops in front of him, looming there, looking down stoically: did not mean to create conflict between you and mother. After a beat, Sarek seems to soften a little. No anger in his face. Takes a seat beside his son... In marriage... conflict is... ... constant? Natural. (a beat) Emotions run deep within our race. In many ways, more deeply than in humans. Long ago, they nearly destroyed us... that is why we followed the teachings of Surak. Now you must choose. ... between you and mother? Never, my son. But you may choose the ethic of logic. Logic offers a serenity humans seldom experience. The control of feelings... so that they do not control you. They called you a traitor. (then) You suggest that should be completely Vulcan... and yet you married a human... why? Sarek is clearly conflicted by this. But he holds steady: As Ambassador to Earth, my duty is to observe and understand human behavior. Marrying your mother... was logical. (Spock seems disquieted) Spock. You are fully capable of choosing your own destiny. The question you are faced with... is which path you will take. This is something only you can decide. -- a door opens: 14 year-old angrily exits the house, carrying a duffel. His angrier, redneckier following. 11 year-old nervously pursues them: Go ahead: go-- run away! You know could give a damn! -- wait-- no! Where are you going? Anywhere but here, far as can get! Which won't be far enough -- know what your problem is?! (big luggie spit) No one ever taught you respect! How to follow orders! Do as you're told! (to Jim) -- what the hell are you doing? just don't want my brother to go. Well do-- and asked you to wash the car! How many damn times do need to repeat myself?! How many damn times? How many? glare to George and Frank walks off. Jim nervously follows his brother, pulling out a small, -- Please stay-- you can have my Flo-Yo! George hits it away: This isn't about toys, it's Uncle Frank. can't take him anymore -- Mom has no idea what he's like when she's not here-- d'you hear him talking like he's our dad?! And that's not even his car you're washing! That was Dad's car! You know why you're washing it? Because he's gonna sell it! Don't leave -- okay? We can tell Mom when she gets back from Africa. She's gone for five more months, by then I'll be in a different system. (sees fear in Kirk) You're gonna be okay. You always are. Always doing everything right -- good grades and obeying every stupid order... (then) can't be a Kirk in this house. Show me how to do that and I'll stay. But Jim can offer nothing. George gives him a quick hug and walks off. Jim sadly watches his brother go. Kirk washes a Red, white top. Dumping the sponge in bucket, he's sadly cleaning, his mind spinning over his brother's departure. Devastated. And he's wiping the soapy passenger window with the sponge, when he -- seeing the in the ignition. as a devilish idea comes to his mind. and we young Jim Kirk behind the wheel The of the engine is a metallic -- not a gas engine). as he drives -- having never done this before, he's as nervous as he is determined -- The -- while inside the car, Jim turns on the updated, modified -- scans stations, momentarily losing control of the car -- but he's back on track as he finds a -- and -- He reaches for a latch -- then the other -- but with the speed he's driving, -- Jim glances back, wide-eyed -- and the roof through the air, landing on the road -- and we as a runs out from taking a roadside -- he races back, jumps on his and -- -- -- Jim's eyes dart to the as the cruiser behind him -- then -- the sees a driving and is -- he calls through his Son, you pull over that car! But Jim just the George, bag over shoulder, thumb out. He turns at the of the -- sees what's approaching... that car... looks... familiar... and the -- then the George runs into the middle of the road, mouth agape -- -- no... way. Back at the Corvette, Jim the steering wheel -- who to avoid the Corvette, which onto a perpendicular kicking up wild dust as the Cop to follow -- Jim is now officially -- and he a -- The Cop through it, in the Corvette's -- and we on a that reads - -- In fact -- We see the -- hundreds of feet deep -- and to the Corvette and Cop speeding toward it -- -- this is where he's been headed all along -- and for a moment we think holy shit -- this is how James Kirk dies. He speeds toward the edge -- -- -- but at the last second, Kirk the brake -- the car -- -- and he -- falling... the comes to a in of as the Corvette The angry Cop hops off his hovercruiser, hand on weapon, as Jim Kirk, out of breath, exhilarated, gets to his knees. What's your name, son? And as he stands, we on him -- and -- damn if that kid doesn't have a swagger. It's like the first time he's ever stood in his life. My name's Kirk. James Tiberius Kirk. And as our we as an -- intelligent, bi- pedal, but with -- is onto the wet pavement -- a under his chin -- then: Brutal, guttural -- You say they are not yours... the scary -- four of them -- standing above the Alien -- chilling hide their hideous faces -- and one holds a -- ... these Federation maps we found in your pockets. And the -- an -- all eyes wild: speak the truth. do. Then who are they for? But the Alien just afraid -- he will not talk. So they -- You would rather die then tell us? as the Alien finally terrified: And the Guards look at each other... seemingly with concern... -- and we to reveal the We realize that the constant shocks of light was that apparently never stops here. - And we see they're heading for a using a lit brilliantly by the lightning strikes. to find that it's And he stops, the coming Guards. And he manages a small smile. And he to them -- Afraid of him. One of them tosses Nero a set of Nero picks them up. Puts them on. And offers his cuffed hands, willingly. Guards drag Nero through the massive pyramidal structure... Nero's get Go to reveal he's pinned to an interrogation table -- three approaches; looms over Nero, studying the Romulan's face with clinical detachment... have come far to meet you. "The One Who Does Not Speak." Ten years is a long time to maintain silence. (beat) Perhaps you simply do not speak Klingon, just as do not speak Romulan. now) But assume we both speak the language of our common enemy. He reveals a worn Opens it, flips through it almost casually... we see of the We found this book in your cell. Cartography, mathematics-- what do these mean? This date here -- eleven years from now-- what happens then? (holds up the And why attempt to smuggle in maps of Federation space? Nero's face betrays nothing; no fear, no doubt. Cold as fucking ice. The Interrogator happens to stare at a page in the book: He closes the book. When you were captured we assumed you were a spy, sent from Romulus to surveil the Empire. But because the Romulans deny your existence, believe you are much more than that. Interrogator looks over to the Guards, nods. Guard approaches with some kind of we something wet around inside, but we can't what it is. Your ship remains in orbit above us now. We've been asking for its secrets for too long. That is why am here. We want to know how it works and believe now, finally... you will tell us. Guard uses to pull out the most creature you've seen from the container: a with and spikes, covered in a grimy muck -- it Centaurian slugs. Their native planet is in constant sunlight. As a result, there's nothing they hate more... than darkness. Guard and the second with his hands. Another Guard -- Nero keeps his eyes open -- furiously determined not to be broken -- as they -- he as the wretched thing makes its way down his esophagus and into his stomach -- They try to claw and bite their way out of any dark space they're in. Nero stares at the ceiling in -- but straining to block it out. on Nero's wide, crazed eyes -- as we -- Quiet. waiting area. Spock's mother, stands alone in a passageway. She looks off-camera to her son: Spock, come here, let me see you. (beat) No. Spock. Reluctantly, Spock walks into frame. She begins adjusting his collar. This is our Gripped by anxiety but trying like hell to look impassive. There is no need to be so anxious. You'll do fine. am hardly "anxious", mother. (beat, then, anxiously) And "fine" has variable definitions. "Fine" is unacceptable. She just smiles as she works his collar. He sees this and it annoys him. He tries to move her hands away, to stop with his collar -- his annoyance, her love for him, all sweet-- but he doesn't let go of her hands. meaningful silence between them. May ask a personal query? ... anything. Should choose to complete the Vulcan discipline of Kolinahr... and purge all emotion... trust you will not feel it reflects judgement upon you. She stares at him, moved. Touches his face. As always... whoever you choose to be... you will have a proud mother. on mother and son, worlds apart but forever bonded: An imposing yet Spock stands before the Among faces on the dais: his seated beside the and other You have surpassed the expectations of your instructors. Your final record is flawless. With one exception. see you have applied to Starfleet as well. It was logical to cultivate multiple options. Logical but unnecessary. You are hereby accepted to the Vulcan Science Academy. distinction all the more significant given that you will be its first half- human pupil. It is truly remarkable, Spock. That you have achieved so much despite your disadvantage. Welcome to the Academy. They all start to rise. But Spock is suddenly unsettled: If you would clarify, Minister-- what "disadvantage" are you referring to? ... your human mother. As the council disperses, we on Spock's face -- the same look he had when he took punches as a kid. He glances at his father to say something, but Sarek's the consummate diplomat. His eyes command: remain calm. Spock then makes the first spontaneous -- human -- decision of his life -- Council -- ministers. must decline. Everyone solid Confused looks turn cold: No Vulcan has ever declined admission to this academy. Then as am half-human, your record remains untarnished. Spock. You have made a commitment to honor the Vulcan At the moment, Father, can way-- think of no greater way to honor our race than to attend Starfleet as its first Vulcan. Why did you come before this council today? Was it to satisfy your emotional need to rebel? came with the intention of enrolling, as my father wished. However, your "insight" has convinced me otherwise. Therefore, the only emotion wish to convey is gratitude. Thank you, Ministers, for your consideration. (a contained "fuck you") Live long and prosper. He looks to his father, whose disappointment is evident -- still, God bless him, Spock walks out -- -- -- -- what seems like a is going on through windows in the double-doors ahead -- and a in front of us -- we in the short skirt and high boots as she the place -- a local, busy -- the woman makes her way to the and we see her She leans into the bartender warmly, her smile glorious: Hi. I'd like a Klabnian Fire Tea, two Cardassian Sunrises and three Earth beers, no slim-shots, anything on draft. That's a lot of drinks for one woman. Wearing those boots. leans in: at 22, he's charming, witty, dangerous, rebellious. He grins at her, flirty. Uhura gives him a look, then back to the bartender: And a shot of Jack, straight up. (to the bartender) Make it two -- her shot's on me. Her shot's on her. Thanks but no thanks. Don't you want my name before you completely reject me? I'm good without it. Damn, he likes her already. You are good without it. It's Jim. Jim Kirk. (long beat) If you don't tell me your name, I'm gonna have to make one up. (beat) Uhura. Uhura? No way -- that's the name was gonna make up for you. Uhura what? Just Uhura. They don't have last names in your world? Uhura is my last name. They don't have first names in your world? Wait, let me guess. Is it "Jim"? That makes her smile. So he moves closer to her: Okay, so you're a cadet. Studying. What's your focus? Xenolinguistics. Lemme guess: you don't know what that means. Let me guess: study of Alien languages: phonology, morphology, syntax-- it means you've got a talented tongue. And for a moment thought you were just a dumb hick who only has sex with farm animals. Well. Not only. You think you're smart. Oh, baby, I'm the smartest. Something sad in that. appears. This guy bothering you? Beyond belief, but nothing can't handle. You could handle me. That's an invitation. The Burly Cadet spins Kirk around: Hey. You mind your manners. At ease, Cup Cake, it was a joke. Like your hairline. Uhura turns back. The other cadets, seeing trouble, approach. Hey -- Jim: enough. What was that? You heard me, Moon Beam. You know how to count farm boy? There's five of us... and one of you. Okay, so go get some more guys, come back and it'll be an even fight. The cadet swings his fist but Kirk -- another Cadet then into a table, which Kirk landing hard -- another Cadet pulls him up -- Kirk that send the Cadet back -- when -- yet another -- and that last punch is repeated then times -- Enough! Another punch and Kirk - he's out of it, but won't give up. The Cadets on him and really - - and Kirk's spirited, but -- about to -- when an makes everything -- they turn -- standing in the doorway is a tall, rugged Starfleet officer -- Outside, all of you! The cadets file out, in for it. Pike moves to a dazed, semi- conscious Kirk, now upside down on a table. Y'alright, Son? You can... whistle really loud, y'know that? -- and Kirk of the almost-closed bar. Only Kirk and Pike sit here at a table. Kirk's bloodied, tissue in his nose. couldn't believe when the bartender told me who you are. ... and who am Captain Pike? Your father's son. (then, smiles) For my dissertation, was assigned the Kelvin. Something admired about your dad... he didn't believe in no-win scenarios. He sure learned his lesson. Depends on how you define winning. You're here, aren't you? (off Kirk's look) That instinct to leap without looking-- that was his nature, too. And in my opinion it's something Starfleet has lost. We're admirable, respectable. But overly-disciplined. (beat) Those cadets you took on, they'll make competent officers -- but you can bet your ass they'll run home to momma the minute they're looking down the barrel of a Klingon phaser cannon. -- why are you talking to me? looked up your file while you were drooling on the floor. Your aptitude tests were off the charts-- what is it, d'you like being the only Genius Level repeat-offender in the midwest? Maybe love it. So your daddy dies... you can settle for a less-than-ordinary life. (beat) Or do you feel like you're meant for something better? Something special? And that just hangs there for a beat. Because Pike just hit a nerve. Kirk does his best not to show it -- still absent- mindedly fiddling with Come to think of it, do want to feel special. You know what? I'm gonna go start a book club-- Enlist in Starfleet. Enlist. You must be way down on your recruiting quota for the month-- If you're half the man your father was, Jim, Starfleet could use you. You could be an officer in four years, have your own ship in eight. He's getting under Kirk's skin -- but Kirk keeps up the 'tude, grabs his jacket, stands -- We're even, right? can go. Riverside shipyard. Shuttle for new recruits leaves tomorrow, 0800. (Kirk turns, Pike grabs him) Your father was Captain of a Starship. For twelve minutes. dare you to do better. Eyes lock... and it's now Pike who stands and walks off. And that's where it hangs. Off Kirk, brooding... whipping by -- Kirk on his rocketing across the plains -- his soul's been stirred and he's fighting it -- he cranks it, -- Kirk pulls up to us, kills the bike. Camera starts to -- he's dramatically and we for an of a -- at its center, the skeletal frame of a under arclights. Unformed, raw, like its future captain. Our we considering Pike's offer, his future, his fate. The shipyard is abuzz with activity -- cadets loading into a shuttle -- and Pike, staring off, waiting. The approaches: Waiting for something, Cap? ... No. Guess not. He climbs in. The pilot rapidly flips through switches, running a pre-flight sequence. Pike straps in. Glances through the viewshield... and he smiles. From his on his driving into the shipyard -- Hold her a second... Kirk rides past a of cooling tanks -- stops the bike near the shuttle -- steps off, has nothing -- no bags -- just the clothes on his back. Nice ride, man. Kirk kicks the stand, tosses the guy the startcard -- Live it up. Kirk walks past the startled worker and approaches Pike. Four years? I'm gonna do it in three. Pike grins as Kirk passes him. Inside the shuttle, Kirk moves down rows of new recruits, some of them Passes and the who when they see him -- one has a At ease, Gentlemen. (then, to Uhura) Never did get that first name. (can't help it: a grin) And you never will. He smiles as he takes a seat at the back of the shuttle. Straps in as it Are you people deaf? told you don't need a doctor, damnit! Kirk turns to see a being forced of the by a -- at 34, he has a Southern lilt and looks like a prisoner waiting for the guillotine to fall: -- you need to find a seat -- -- had one, in the bathroom, Darlin', with no windows -- -- Sir, for your own safety, -- suffer from Aviaphobia, siddown, or will you case you don't understand big sit down... do you hear me? words, it means 'fear of dying in something that flies.' They at each other, then the man drops into the seat beside Kirk. The ship to one side and the man his armrests, pale, sweating -- glances at Kirk: might throw up on you. think these things're pretty safe-- Don't pander to me, kid: one tiny crack in the hull and our blood boils in thirteen seconds -- solar flare might crop up, cook us in our seats -- Hell, some of the damn passengers are blue. And wait'll you're sitting pretty with a case of Andorian shingles, see if you're still so relaxed when your eyeballs are bleeding-- space is disease and danger, wrapped in darkness and silence. hate to break this to you, but Starfleet operates in space. Yeah, well my ex-wife took the whole damn planet in the divorce, got nowhere to go but up. Leonard McCoy. Jim Kirk-- you really gonna throw up--? Maybe-- As the the shuttle ascends and we... Nero lies on the floor of his cell, semi-conscious, looking like death. Behind him the Two enter, backlit. The day you've been waiting for is upon us, Silent One. And look. No sign of salvation. No sign of change. Just more pain. And they both lift his limp body up -- as something miraculous happens -- -- -- in what seems like an instant, he's the only one standing here -- holding both of the Guards' rifles -- which he badass. as it opens -- Ayel, chained, looks up, intensely -- and sees that it's who has arrived -- we as he The wait is over. Off Ayel, we from a a sea of head across campus, McCoy and Kirk among them. miraculous view of San Francisco beneath a blue sky, Golden Gate Bridge piercing the air. Kirk struts: So you'll do it for me, right? have no interest. didn't ask if you have interest, asked if you'd do it. I'm about to ask you an obvious question: why bother? Because I've failed the test twice. And you're determined to make it three. We've all failed it-- everyone has, and that's the point! No one goes back for seconds, let alone thirds -- it's not like you need to pass it to graduate. So Bones: why do they make us take it? told you to stop calling me that. You're very annoying. And you're the greatest -- thank you. You'd better study for it this time. Oh, no-- Bones -- gotta date. date? Listen, as smart as you are, which ain't much, if you don't prepare-- You have no idea how prepared I'm gonna be-- no idea. And with a smile, Kirk heads off -- McCoy watches him go, calling after him: Seriously, stop calling me Bones! (to himself, hating it) "Bones". In a beautiful lies on her back, in some kind of bra, moaning in delight -- this is -- -- oh Jim... Jim... Jim, love you. (kissing her) ... Yeah. sent you a message. Gaila reaches over, turns on the light and we realize: And not particularly happy: say love you", and you say sent you a message?" -- but you can only open it tomorrow at three o'clock on the dot -- -- what are you talking about? What is it? What does it say? -- Gaila, promise me you're not going to open it 'till -- what is it? Tell me what three -- it says! -- I'll erase it, swear, if you don't promise me you'll -- All right!! Three o'clock! wait -- prom-- They're by a -- (sotto) You can't get caught in this dorm-- hide! Under the bed, quick! Kirk falls, lands hard on the floor, under the bed as Gaila's roommate enters -- Dropping her backpack: Hey-- thought you were going to be in the long-range sensor lab all night. was supposed to be, but it was crazy, picked up an emergency transmission from a Klingon prison planet -- there was an escape and a ship stolen from th-- (suddenly senses) ... you okay? Yeah, been running simulations all week, just catching up on some rest. Tired. (fake yawn) That's all. Uhura watches her. Her eyes narrow. Were you running simulations with the mouth-breather hiding under the bed? Gaila freezes, caught. Uhura looks down, Kirk Your hearing is scary-- you sure both your parents are human? The hell are you doing with him in here? can't help it! love him! Gaila loves me-- Get outta here -- it's my ass too if administration catches you in this dorm. (getting dressed, to Uhura) You and have a big day tomorrow -- (pushing him out) You're gonna fail. If pass, will you tell me your first name? No. Good night. (quiet, tries to charm) think the fact that you picked up a transmission of a Klingon prison escape is very interesting. and we The Narada through space -- Dead silence on the bridge... all eyes on the empty starfield, roiling clouds of methane ice. We have arrived at the coordinates you requested. Stardate confirmed. 2258.5. Nero stands, looks out through his view screens. Standby. Ayel studies his console, hope in his eyes. Quietly: Captain... long range scans of Beta Quadrant complete. Romulus is there. She's there. We could go. Right now, go home... Not yet -- not like this. Not how we left. This is our chance... to serve our people. We owe it to them -- to do what no other Romulan could ever do. Ayel hides his disappointment behind his eyes as suddenly -- -- impossibly, from nowhere -- -- and through the lightning erupts -- Welcome back. Spock. And we won't know where we are as and we Uhura at her comm station -- on her. She seems wildly and almost -- we are receiving a distress signal from the Kobayashi Maru. The ship has lost power and is stranded. Starfleet Command has ordered us to rescue them. where captains the battered bridge. Confident -- cocky: "Starfleet Command has ordered us to rescue them... Captain." She glares, turns away. Then McCoy, at a console, reports: Klingon vessels have entered the Neutral Zone. And they are firing upon us. That's okay. McCoy and Uhura -- and the others -- look at him, confused. It's okay? Yeah, don't worry about it. McCoy and Uhura share a look -- that's when we Looking at the bridge from above, we to reveal an observation room above the faux-ship. This is the test Kirk was referring to. monitor the proceedings. turns to another and asks: Did he say "don't worry about it"? -- what's he doing? And we that, sitting among the technicians, is Gaila. Our resident She checks her watch -- 2:59 On her awaits a 23rd century e-mail -- a -- Three more Klingon Warbirds decloaking -- and targeting our ship -- don't suppose this is a problem either? Nah. They're firing, Captain. Alert medical bay to prepare to receive all crew members from the damaged ship. And how do you expect us to rescue them when we're surrounded by Klingons? Alert medical. Annoyed, she does as: Our ship is being hit -- shields at sixty percent. understand. Should we at least, dunno, fire back? Mmmm... no. Of course not. as it changes to 3:00 -- and she opens Jim's message -- and all it reads is, And just then something and and -- -- everyone reacts -- -- the hell's happening?! The crew doesn't know what's up -- except Kirk, who is remarkably pleased -- when the things are not the same: (perplexed, works controls) -- the Kobayashi Maru is still in distress... but... the Klingons have stopped firing. Arm photons. Prepare to fire on the Klingon warbirds. Jim, their shields are up. Are they? McCoy looks at his monitor. No they're not. ... no. Fire on all enemy ships -- one photon each should do -- let's not waste ammunition. Target lock acquired on all warbirds -- firing! They fire -- All mouths here are agape. Begin rescue of the stranded crew. So. We've eliminated all enemy ships, no one on board was injured and the successful rescue of the Kobayashi Maru crew is underway. For the first time, Kirk looks up to the testing room windows: Anything else? And they're stunned up here, too -- Test Administrator #2 turns to someone How the hell'd that kid beat your test? who he was talking to: is here. And not happy. ... do not know. a stern James Kirk. Step forward. It's a huge Starfleet chamber. Golden Gate Bridge visible through huge windows. 500 cadets, a nervous among them. He stands, moves to one of two An incident has occurred today that concerns the entire student body. Academic immorality by one is an assault on us all. It will. Not. Stand. Cadet Kirk, evidence has been submitted to this council suggesting you violated the ethical code of conduct pursuant to regulation 17.43 of the Starfleet code. Is there anything you care to say before we begin? (uncomfortable beat) Yessir. believe have the right to face my accuser directly. President nods toward the assembly. He and Kirk for the first time. It's clock-stopping. Step forward please. This is Commander Spock, one of our most distinguished graduates. He's programmed the Kobayashi Maru test for the last four years. Spock steps up to the President nods. Cadet Kirk. It is obvious you somehow managed to install and activate a sub- routine in the programming code, thereby changing the conditions of the test. We happen to find in the crowd, fucking pissed. Your point being? In academic vernacular, you cheated. Respectfully. Define "cheating". To deceive by trickery. Now let me ask you something think we all know the answer to: the test is rigged, isn't it? You programmed it to be unwinnable. Mr. Kirk, don't see how the intent of the exam is relevant to these proceedings. Because if I'm right, Sir, then the test itself is a cheat. Your argument precludes the possibility of a no-win scenario -- don't believe in no-win scenarios -- amongst the officers in attendance. His eyes locked on Kirk. This is his boy. His recruit. And he's Then not only have you violated the rules, you've failed to understand the principle lesson. Please, enlighten me. You, of all people should know, Cadet Kirk -- captain cannot cheat death. The first punch by Spock that landed. The cockiness slips away as he senses where this is going -- of all people?" Your father, Lieutenant George Kirk, had assumed command of his vessel before killed in action, did he not? Shit. The card. Kirk, a mix of and -- How long did it take you to look that up? How long did it take you to program the virus that allowed you to cheat? The President smirks; considers ending this now but doesn't, it's just too damn entertaining... Maybe you just don't like that beat your test. am Vulcan. "Like" is not a verb in our vernacular. I've simply made the logical deduction that you're a liar. What an idiot am for taking that personally -- Agreed. Furthermore, you have failed to divine the purpose of the test. Enlighten me again. The purpose is to experience fear. Fear in the face of certain death. To accept that fear and maintain command of one's self and one's crew. This is a quality expected in every Starfleet captain. Kirk absorbs that. Then -- So you're telling me the point. Of the whole thing. Is to be afraid? Fear is necessary, yes. Have you taken the test, Commander Spork? Spock. As a Vulcan, require no additional training to control my narcissism when making command decisions. No he Kirk's hit guys for a lot less -- The crowd all but "OOOOOOHs." But Kirk ain't fucking done yet. You keep reminding me that you're Vulcan. And I'm sure you're really proud of that, who wouldn't be-- but isn't it true you people don't experience fear at all? He raises that eyebrow. And Kirk sees... no matter how subtly... that he has fucking made Smelling blood - And if that's the case -- What's that say about your ability to make command decisions? Well. Looks like Kirk just hit him in fucking weak spot. And before this lovefest can continue -- bursts into the -- Kirk turns to look -- they all do -- now we're behind the who runs to the President, hands him a President reads it. Everyone watches, on edge -- finally, quietly: (to all) We've received a distress call from Vulcan. (Spock reacts concerned) Cadet Kirk -- you are on academic probation pending the result of your hearing. Cadets, report to Shuttle Hangar One immediately -- this hearing is at recess until further notice -- dismissed. Everyone's on their feet, Kirk suddenly irrelevant. passes by him, all fucking business, but before he goes -- Cheating isn't winning. And as that settles on Kirk, McCoy now joins him. The two exiting with the rest of the cadets as Kirk eyes -- Who was that pointy-eared bastard? don't know, but like him. racing to their shuttles -- stand on platforms, calling out -- cadets as they're called -- Blake! Newton! Jaxa! The Endeavor! Counter! Odyssey! T'nag! The Antares! Fugeman: Regula One! Gerace: Pomoroy! The Oddyssey! Farragut! McGrath! Leifer! Newton! Wolcott! McCoy! Uhura! The Farragut! Enterprise! Welcome to Starfleet and Godspeed! As the last of the cadets head off, Kirk stands there without a home -- he moves to his exiting Barracks Leader -- Excuse me, you didn't call my name. Kirk, James (checks his tablet) You're on academic probation. That means you're grounded until the Academy Board rules. Kirk is as Leader heads off -- McCoy, needing to run: ... Jim, the Board'll rule in your favor. Most likely. (Kirk is just rocked) Look, Jim -- gotta go -- ... yeah-- yeah, you go... I'm good. Kirk forces a half-smile. Torn, McCoy hurries off. from Kirk, alone as the mass of newly-minted cadets criss- crosses around him. At the hangar entrance, McCoy suddenly a lightbulb. He quickly returns to Kirk, pulls him off: Come with me -- -- what're you doing --? with them as they hurry through the throng of cadets -- and suddenly we're moving in the as a pissed-off Uhura serpentines through the group to -- Commander, a word? Spock moves away from the officers, a private moment with her: Yes, Lieutenant? Was not one of your top students? Indeed you were -- Did not receive a Gold rating for Exolinguistic skills, giving Starfleet first place over Kyoto and at the Oxford Invitational? nearby -- it gets -- An exceptional achievement, to be su-- -- and did not, on multiple occasions, demonstrate exceptional aural sensitivity and, quote, "unparalleled ability to identify sonic anomalies" in subspace transmission tests?! Consistently, yes-- And while you were well aware that my unqualified desire was to serve on the Enterprise, was assigned to the Farragut. Spock reacts unusually; he seems almost embarrassed. Quiet. It was an attempt to avoid the appearance of favoritism. She gets closer, voice low, all pride and defiance: No. No. am assigned to the Enterprise. Their eyes hold. He checks his tablet, makes an change: Oh. Yes, believe you are. McCoy and Kirk enter fast. McCoy goes through a cabinet, preps a med in a hypospray What are you doing? Doing you a favor. couldn't just leave you there, looking all pitiful-- roll up your sleeve, I'm gonna give you a vaccine against viral infection from Melvaran mud fleas. McCoy the Hypospray -- Ow-- what for? To give you symptoms. -- don't understand-- -- you're gonna start to lose vision in your left eye -- -- yeah, already have -- -- don't stand up yet -- (he tries to stand; -- what'd you do to me? -- you're gonna get a really (in pain) bad headache. And flopsweat. -- this is a favor?! -- yeah, you're welcome. McCoy ushers Kirk out of the room -- McCoy ushers Kirk to a shuttle -- a stops them: "Kirk, James -- he's not cleared for duty aboard the Enterprise -- But am, and Medical Code states the treatment and transport of a patient's to be determined at the discretion of his attending physician, which is me. (re: scanner) You can see he's suffering, he needs me as his doctor, so since I'm assigned to this ship, so's he, or would you like to explain to Captain Pike why the Enterprise warped into a crisis without one of its medical officers? ... as you were. As you were. And with that, he pulls Kirk past the speechless officer -- fleet of depart Starfleet -- head out to space -- Kirk, in agony, sweating, sits beside McCoy as they pass through the stratosphere. McCoy's peering out a window -- might throw up on you. You should look at this. And through his pain, Kirk does... and is amazed... The shuttle approaches a massive where a dozen But the ship we're approaching is miraculous: The shuttle glides to the underside of the Enterprise. opens -- Officers move quickly on the ship -- Kirk and McCoy enter. Kirk pretty much Bones. Thanks for getting me on board. But don't feel right. feel like I'm leaking. Oh look, the pointy-eared bastard. Kirk looks up -- moves towards them, not seeing them -- Kirk yanks McCoy out of the way -- Spock passes and enters a -- Kirk looks back as the doors close. Then we go -- for just a moment -- as the doors open and we enter with Spock: Spock walks through the glorious, gleaming new space, taking his position at the at the command chair. Captain, engineering reports "ready for launch". The maiden voyage of our newest flagship deserves more pomp and circumstance than we can afford today, but her christening will have to be our reward for a safe return-- (toggles intercom) All decks, this is Captain Pike. Prepare for immediate departure. Helm, thrusters. to the helm: turns to Pike -- at 25, he's the Federation's best pilot. As he works the controls: Moorings retracted, Captain. Dock Control reports ready -- thrusters fired, separating from space dock -- The Enterprise moves away from the dock -- smaller crafts floating around it. The other already ahead -- moving into position. preps. McCoy enters with Kirk, in amusing agony -- McCoy helps him onto a bed, prepares another hypospray. -- oh, this wasn't worth it -- wish didn't know you-- I'm itching in my mouth, this is Here's a short-lasting horrible-- sedative -- those symptoms won't last long, don't be an infant. And he with another hypospray -- As Sulu works the controls -- The fleet's cleared space dock, Captain. All ships ready for warp. Set course for Vulcan. Course laid in. Maximum warp. Punch it. And Sulu does and -- The six ships -- then then then then The Enterprise, however... just sits there. Pike -- and the others -- look at Sulu, who is confused -- concerned -- searching the controls. Finally: Lieutenant, where's Helmsman McKenna? Uh, he has lungworms, Sir? He'll be fine but couldn't report to his post-- I'm Hikaru Sulu -- (fucking with him) -- and you are a pilot, right? Very much so, Sir-- I'm not sure what's... wrong here... Is the parking brake on? (half-laughs) -- no, I'll figure it out, just-- Have you disengaged the External Inertial Dampener? Sulu does -- and realizes Spock is right. He makes it work. Ready for warp, Sir. The external inertial dampener. That's... the parking brake. (essentially) ... yessir. (laughs) Let's punch it! And now alone, the Enterprise -- and is gone. a small Vulcan object. as if in a small earthquake. to find Amanda as she moves through her home, out to the balcony -- and in the distance, a mile away, is a massive -- like a ray from God, which creates and massive slamming into the ground. Amanda's eyes go wide with terror -- Looking towards Vulcan at the gigantic the of the -- and we to see that the platform is -- and we in orbit above the planet -- Nero stares at holographic images of Vulcan -- as Ayel arrives behind him. Captain Nero, drilling has begun. Prepare the Red Matter. Tell me when we reach core depth. Ayel heads off -- Ayel enters the massive hangar -- where Ayel moves to, enters the Jellyfish -- Ayel moves into the -- a containing a large, floating -- some kind of energy source. Ayel observes some of this Red Matter, sucking it into a tube -- Workers place the tube of Red Matter into a The journey's underway. The bridge crew monitors systems: Engines at Maximum Warp, Captain. Russian whiz kid-- what's your name again? Chanko? Cherpov? An 18 leans into frame. Ensign Chekov, Pavel Sir. Fine, Chekov, Pavel begin shipwide mission broadcast. Yessir, happy to. (into console) Ensign authorization code: Nine-Five- Wictor Wictor-Two-- Chekov is a genius, a graduate of the academy at seventeen -- he sighs: Aigh, thees is the 23rd Century -- what good is woice recognition that doesn't recognize your woice? (again) Nine-Five-Victor-Victor-Two. Your attention, plees: At twenty-two hundred hours, telemetry detected an anomaly in the Neutral Zone. What appeared to be a lightning storm in space. appears on monitors throughout the great ship, including 12 stories of catwalks as engineers tend to the that operates the warp drive -- Soon after, Starfleet received a distress signal from the Vulcan High Council that their planet was experiencing seismic activity. We then lost contact with Vulcan entirely. rows of stacked for war -- arming the cannons. of the Crew at work in Our mission is to assess the condition of Vulcan and assist in evacuations, if necessary. as the med staff sets up a triage area -- We should be arriving at Vulcan within two minutes. Thank you for your time. And as Chekov's message ends, Kirk suddenly -- his mind through the pain and sedative -- he tries to get off the bed, to his feet, as McCoy hurries over -- Jim, told you to stay d-- good God! What McCoy has just seen -- what we and Kirk see now -- is that -- what's this?! -- don't know-- a reaction to the vaccine -- damnit -- Kirk rushes to the video monitor where Chekov was seen -- using his huge hands, he -- replays this part as McCoy -- -- telemetry detected an anomaly in the Neutral Zone. What appeared to be a lightning storm in space. He it -- eyes wild -- looks to McCoy -- -- Bones -- we have to stop the ship-- -- you're not allergic to Cardassian vole dander, are you? --- what? How the hell would know? Is Uhura on board? You need an antidote, Jim, or you're gonna die. Jim, I'm not kidding, you gotta keep your heart rate down. Computer, locate crew member Uhura -- haven't seen a reaction this severe since Med school. appears -- locates her -- Lieutenant Uhura is at signals monitoring station twelve -- deck four. We're flying into a trap. Kirk -- McCoy hurrying after him with a bag of gear: You're delusional, you know that. Kirk and McCoy enter -- Kirk stops, looks around -- Come here -- Jim -- don't move -- And McCoy -- -- ow! Stop it! And Kirk runs into a -- giant surround a dozen workstations where collect data -- Kirk races to Uhura -- The transmission from the Klingon prison planet -- what exactly did you hear? What are you doing here-- what happened to your hands?! Kirk hides his hands behind his back -- as he talks it becomes Who was it who escaped? What was the ship that was stolen--?! (to McCoy, indiscernible) -- what's happening to my mouth? (working Hypospray) -- you've got Numb Tongue -- (impossible to make out) Numb tongue? That's not good-- can fix that-- Kirk grabs a pen with his huge hands and writes -- shows her what he's written: - Uhura looks at him -- somehow scared -- as McCoy Amanda's a spec against the The image is almost religious. to her face -- mesmerized, terrified -- suddenly: a behind her, at the controls is against wind) She turns to him in horror -- Bridge doors as Kirk followed by Uhura and a harried McCoy -- Captain Pike-- Sir, we have to stop ship! -- Mr. Kirk! How the hell did you get on board the This man is under the Enterprise?! influence of a severe reaction to a vaccine. He is delusional and take full responsibility for -- Vulcan isn't experiencing a natural disaster, it's being attacked -- by Romulans. as that lands. But most specifically, Cadet Kirk, think you've had enough attention for one day -- Dr. McCoy, return to medical, we'll have words later. Yessir. Rebuked, McCoy exits as: As you know, Mr. Kirk is not cleared to be aboard this vessel. By Starfleet Yeah, get it, you're a regulations, that makes him a great arguer, I'd love to do stowaway... it again with you, too. can remove the cadet from -- Try it! This cadet is the bridge, Sir -- trying to save the bridge! -- By recommending a full stop in trans-warp in the midst of a rescue mission? -- It's not a rescue mission-- listen to me! It's an attack! -- Based on what facts? Enough. And cadet or not, the bridge is Fact: the same anomaly -- a lighting storm in space -- that we saw today also occurred on the day of my birth, before a Romulan ship attacked the Kelvin. (to Pike) You know that, read your dissertation. Which was good. Fact: This ship -- which had formidable and advanced weaponry -- was never seen or heard from again -- fact: the Kelvin attack took place on the edge of Klingon space and at 11-hundred hours last night there was an escape from a Klingon prison planet -- Rura Penthe -- fact: the escaped prisoners were Romulans, Sir, and it was reported that they stole a ship from the prison dock. And you know of this prison escape how? Kirk just points to Uhura. Sir, intercepted and translated the message myself. Kirk's report is accurate. We're warping into a trap-- there are Romulans waiting for us, promise you that. All eyes on Pike. He looks to Spock, who could screw Kirk here... But-- The cadet's logic is sound. (then) And Lieutenant Uhura is unmatched in xenolinguistics, we would be wise to accept her conclusion. (to Comm Officer) Scan Vulcan space, check if any transmissions are being made in Romulan. Sir, I'm-- not sure could distinguish the Romulan language from Vulcan. (to Uhura) How about you -- you speak Romulan, Cadet...? Uhura, Sir. All three dialects. Uhura, relieve the Lieutenant -- Mr. Hannity, hail the Truman. Uhura sits at the console -- she We've just watched the birth of an icon. She works the controls -- The other ships are out of warp and have arrived at Vulcan, Sir-- but we seem to have lost all contact-- Captain, pick up no Romulan transmissions -- or transmissions of any kind in the area. There seems to be something jamming all communication around Vulcan. It's because they're being attacked. Captain. Please. (long, tense beat) Shields up. Ready all weapons. of our people -- as they dread what they're about to see -- Arrival at Vulcan in five seconds! Four... three... two-- Sulu the Enterprise and the spinning debris the ship. The bridge shakes, but rights itself. -- meanwhile, inside: rings out -- Sir, another Federation ship! Destroy it, too. Spock snaps to Pike as images on his console -- Captain, they're locking torpedoes! Full reverse, come about Starboard ninety degrees! Drop us down underneath them! Prepare to fire all weapons! The Narada and in a wild move, the Enterprise -- the passes -- our hero ship's -- another the and -- runs through the machine room catwalks as a sends him -- and large steel tanks -- We see the ship from a distance -- the scale of the destruction relatively small -- Shields at thirty-two percent! Their weapons are powerful, Sir, we can't take another hit like that! Get me Starfleet Command! Captain, the Romulan ship has lowered some kind of high energy pulse device into the Vulcan atmosphere-- its signal appears to be blocking our communications and transporter abilities! All power to forward shields -- prepare to fire all weapons! Photons fast by and -- The Enterprise firing photons at the Narada which takes the hits in stride -- The bridge in action -- Fire torpedoes, take them out--! And just before our heroes are blown into oblivion, Nero suddenly and stabs out a hand: Nero's eyes are hard and bright as diamond drills: The hull -- magnify -- On screen, the Enterprise's hull is revealed Nero with recognition -- Pike on the comm: Divert auxiliary power from port nacelle to the shields--! But Pike stops when he sees, on the viewscreen Captain, we're being hailed! Pike looks over -- nods -- Uhura works controls and on viewscreen, Nero appears. Cool. Cordial. In English: Hello. am Captain Christopher Pike, to whom am speaking? am called Nero. -- breathless -- suddenly staring at the man who murdered his father -- holy You've declared war against the Federation. Withdraw, and I'll agree to arrange a conference with Romulan leadership at a neutral loca-- do not speak for the Empire. We stand apart. As does your Vulcan crew member... isn't that right? Spock? All eyes on Spock. Spock looks to Pike, who nods permission: (to Nero) Pardon me. But don't believe you and are acquainted. ... no, we're not. Not yet. (then) would like you to see something. Spock. (then) Captain Pike-- your transporter capability is disabled. You will man a shuttle and come aboard the Narada for negotiations. That is all. The transmission The crew stares in grave anticipation -- -- he'll kill you, you know that-- Your survival is unlikely-- -- Captain, we gain nothing by diplomacy-- going over to that -- too, suggest you rethink ship is a mistake. this strategy. understand that -- (loud, to the bridge) need officers who have been trained in advanced hand-to-hand combat! Sulu's hand goes up -- have training, Sir! Then come with me -- Kirk, you too-- you're not supposed to be here anyway. (to Chekov) Radio the engine room, have Chief Engineer Olsen meet us at Shuttle Bay Five. Aye, Keptin. Let's go. Bridge doors open -- they with Pike, Kirk, Spock and Sulu as they through the Enterprise toward the shuttle bay: Without transporters, we can't beam off the ship, can't assist Vulcan, can't do our job. I'm creating an opportunity: Mr. Kirk, Mr. Sulu and Mr. Olson will space-jump from the shuttle. You'll have chutes -- you'll land on that machine they've lowered into the atmosphere that's scrambling our gear-- you'll get inside, disable that thing then beam back to the ship. Kirk and Sulu share a look -- ... okay. Mr. Spock, I'm leaving you in command of the ship. Once we have transport capability and communications back up, you'll contact Starfleet and report what the hell's happening here. Something you've got only precious few minutes to figure out. If all else fails, fall back and rendezvous with the fleet in the Laurentian System. (Spock is freaked, then) Kirk. I'm promoting you to First Officer. What!?! -- Captain? While I'm gone we need to keep the chain of command. And you two make a swell team. Captain. Please. apologize, but the complexities of human pranks escape me. It's not a prank, Spock. And I'm not the Captain. You are. And with that, he's Strides off. Kirk finally shakes off the shock of his -- Once we knock out that machine... Sir, what happens to you? guess you'll have to come get me. (turns; to Spock) Careful with the ship. She's brand new. They appreciate the pure of that. washes over them -- they'd fucking for their Captain, who now turns to Kirk and Sulu -- Suit up, Gentlemen. Sarek's hovercraft speeds along the desert floor, arriving at a massive -- he and Amanda hurry off the craft -- into the cave -- Bridge doors open -- all eyes on Spock as he enters -- their new captain. With cold certainty, he takes the command chair, hits the intercom: Dr. Puri, report -- it's bad, bloody -- a hits an intercom: McCoy, badly shaken -- It's McCoy-- Dr. Puri was on Deck 6, he's dead. (beat) Then you have just inherited his responsibility as Chief Medical Officer. Aye, Sir. Kirk, Sulu, and the ship's are suiting up for the drop, strapping on sleek They race into the shuttle and take seats facing each other across a narrow aisle -- Red Shirt Engineer like he's going on a ski trip: am pumped to kick some Romulan ass! No joke. Kirk nods at him -- subtext: "What a fucking sack." He looks to Sulu. So what kinda combat training d'you have? (proudly) Fencing. (unimpressed, beat) ... fencing. In the Pike works the controls -- and the craft -- We see the shuttle -- The shuttle soars from the Enterprise bay, the planet Vulcan a red orb below... as it descends and now we The shuttle to a hover, 60,000 -- signalling depressurization of the cargo lock -- the guys ready their equipment, snatching for handstraps, standing on the lip of -- Kirk and Sulu meet eyes through their helmet faceplates, the point of no return -- over their headsets: Pre-jump on one: Three, two, one. Good luck. Pike hits another control -- as the shuttle - - and The falling trio everyone watches, agape: Away team's entering the atmosphere -- and meet eyes -- this is fucking insane -- and a takes us to: -- their chutes -- Kirk approaches -- more terrified than ever -- he comes in hard, too -- against the drill edge, bounces but quickly gets his footing -- hits a button on his chute and appear in the fabric, suddenly there's no more drag and into Kirk's pack -- 20 yards from the drill surface his chute gets him upside down -- the is so intense Sulu is -- his begin on the sharp metal of the suspension rig! Kirk holds on to one of the chute's cables -- yells up: As Kirk tries to climb up, Sulu's cables begin to -- and Sulu tries to using his chute cables, toward the rig -- otherwise he's gonna fly off. As Kirk makes his way up the rig, suddenly: Kirk just as a Romulan appears -- tackling Kirk to the drill platform! The two -- and suddenly there's from an - - and tackling the second guard and the shit is our Starfleet heroes battling these Romulans to the death -- and Sulu and uses it as a -- fucking swashbuckling at 10,000 feet! It's a frenzied assault even the bigger Romulan isn't ready for, and Sulu manages to him into the vortex, where he's as -- draws his and point-blank the Romulan, knocking him clear the cylinder and into the sky, falling to his death, as he falls -- Against pummeling wind, Kirk and Sulu move toward the -- -- as: Pike's Pike steps out. Surrounded by a dozen of Nero's men. Ayel steps forward. Pike stands firm, knowing this is the end for him: I'm Captain Christopher Pi-- He's cut off by a to the face. Drops to his knees. Looks up at Ayel with blazing eyes, wipes a trickle of blood from his lip: So much for diplomacy. He's as -- Kirk and Sulu through the outer hatch to find a control console, Sulu madly flips switches, no luck -- None of this is familiar-- the interface, the controls-- Step back-- -- what, you have an idea? -- yeahyeah, do-- Kirk his at the console, -- The immense column of light leaving only a towering, swirling vortex of -- Uhura's console with activity: The jamming signal's gone -- communications are re-established -- Transporter control re-engaged -- Spock looks up from his console, grave -- Chekov, run gravitational sensors -- want to know what they're doing to the planet. Aye, Commander-- Keptin, sorry. Keptin. Romulan Helmsman to Nero -- The drill's been sabotaged, Sir. Nero, mind racing -- Launch the red matter. Now. The we saw earlier is from the ship -- it past. Kirk and Sulu pull themselves from the control cockpit back out onto the drill's outer hull, they start to hear a And for an instant... nothing. What looks like a puff of smoke billowing up from the planet's core... Kirk to Enterprise -- they just launched something toward the planet! Keptin: gravitational sensors are off the scale -- if my calculations are correct, that pod they launched is creating a singularity... that will consume the planet. -- Uhura watches Spock, heartsick for him: They're creating a black hole... at the center of Vulcan? ... yessir. How long does the planet have? ... minutes, Sir. I'd say minutes. (beat, to Uhura) Alert Vulcan Command Center to signal a planetwide evacuation-- all channels, all frequencies -- maintain standard orbit -- What? Spock, wait -- She goes after him as he moves to the -- -- where are you going? To evacuate the Vulcan High Council-- they're tasked with protecting our cultural history. My parents will be among them-- -- you can't beam them out? It's not possible -- they'll be in the Katrik Arc, must get them myself-- of -- Nero watching them, pleased. He turns to Ayel -- Retract the drill, let's move out! The drill platform -- begins -- The platform -- Sulu -- Kirk, holding on, watching this wide-eyed -- and knowing what he must do, he -- he's only gonna have one shot at this, presses his arms to his sides and downward, building speed, four hundred feet below is Sulu, -- moves his feet and hands, angling toward him -- slashing downward at 160 mph, closing like a missile -- the gap between them narrows -- Sulu's 30 feet below him... 5000 feet to the planet surface. 40 ft -- 20 -- 10 -- Kirk slams into Sulu in a mid-air tackle -- they -- Kirk's made the grab and locked his arms around Sulu in an iron grip, screams in his face: Sulu -- it opens -- but the double weight The works his controls, sweating -- trying to I'm trying! can't lock on your signal! as Chekov hears this -- watching his controls -- Uhura watching too -- -- you're moving too fast! -- no-- can do that-- Chekov suddenly -- Uhura watches him race off -- a steps into frame: The black hole's expanding, we won't reach minimum safe distance if we don't leave immediately! Chekov through -- -- And we take him to: -- where he races to the controls, out of breath, yelling: -- and he begins working the controls -- Kirk and Sulu -- -- Chekov's manipulating a joystick-like -- trying to match the on the -- -- holdonholdonholdonholdon! massive -- Kirk and Sulu enter frame, right past us, -- (headset) as he struggles to lock onto them -- Compensating gravitational pull and-- He and -- Transporter engineers in utter amazement and relief -- Chekov, sweating, laughs. Kirk and Sulu get their bearings, peeling themselves up, at stunned whispers: ... thanks. ... yeah, not a problem. And Kirk looks up as hurries in -- Step aside -- I'm going to the surface. As the console works the display -- The surface of what? Are you nuts?! Energize -- And Spock -- as Spock -- the distant landscape around him -- he sprints for the -- the entrance to the -- a scared, small runs past Spock as he heads up the mountain -- rocks falling -- Spock through the tunnels as the world around him -- he enters the massive -- sees, atop the enormous stairs, Sarek among them, hands placed on the sarcophagus-like ark. Mind melding with it. Amanda is here too, kneeling beside Sarek -- and she sees her son, who is now toward them -- she stands: Spock--! Spock rushes up the stairs -- The planet's not safe, it has only seconds left -- we must evacuate now -- And as they run out, -- and they run through the tunnels, the -- Spock and the group finally emerge from the tunnels to see -- -- Spock whips open a tri-corder, -- Spock to Enterprise: take us back now! Chekov works the controls: Locking volume, transport in 5-4-3-- -- and Spock, trying to hold it together -- even though their transport hasn't yet begun -- looks at Amanda -- their eyes lock -- -- and in a surreal, intimate moment, Amanda says to Spock, quietly: It's okay. To be scared. looking at her -- as the start -- and they begin to -- -- -- as Spock Chekov in a panic at the controls -- -- as the Vulcans on the pad, Spock still for his mother -- but all he gets it the -- as it lands -- Sarek too... a mother... a wife... has been lost. And Kirk stands nearby, having observed all of this, without anything to do or say... there's no cheating death. And the Enterprise -- in the distance, And over this we Acting Captain's log. Stardate 2256.42: have assumed command of the Enterprise. The kind that crashes after the world's changed. In triage, the bay's filled with wounded Enterprise Officers. The Vulcan Elders and Sarek being examined as well. Kirk sits here, getting his hand bandaged from the fight. During this, he looks up, seeing one of the Elders being treated for a slight wound -- her seen through the bandage... We've heard no word from Captain Pike. have therefore classified him a hostage of the war criminal known as Nero. Spock sits in the captain's chair, reporting. He's glassy-eyed, staring at nothing as he speaks. Behind him, Uhura sits, watching, concerned. Nero, who has destroyed my home planet. And most of its six billion inhabitants. estimate no more than ten thousand survived. (beat) While the essence of our culture has been saved, in the elders who now reside upon this ship... am now a member of an endangered species. Spock considers this. Clicks off the log recorder. Spock moves off, into the turbolift -- Uhura follows him -- Spock and Uhura. Silence hangs. She glances over, wanting to say so much, but not to invade what must be the worst moment of his life. He looks at her, with kind eyes. And Uhura does something odd -- she the lift. Spock looks over as she wordlessly reaches out and puts her arms around him. Just holding him. Kissing his face with utter tenderness and comfort, which he lets her do... and we realize, this is why the intimacy before -- this is their secret... I'm so sorry. Spock looks off, taking comfort, bewildered and lost... What can do? Tell me what you need. ... need... He's on the verge of some emotional release... but self- consciousness returns and he clamps up, starting the lift again: need for us all to continue performing admirably. He looks at her again -- gives her another kiss. The door opens and he exits. She watches him go -- and the door closes on her. Kirk comes down the hall, stretching his hand bandage -- when he stops. Standing at the other end of the corridor, operating a is a familiar-looking Guilt overcomes him. After a beat he moves to her. Awkward. Hey. (she turns to him) Listen, about what happened at Starfleet. The test and everything-- know it looks like was... using you, or whatever. And I'm sorry. really am. And... just hope you'll forgive me. She just stares at him for a long beat, as if she's just pissed. But Kirk's face changes... and then he says: ... you're not Gaila, are you? (pissed) No. (nods) Sorry. And he walks off. Uhura at her station, scanning for enemy signals -- all of our principals are here, in debate: Lieutenant, have you confirmed that Nero is headed for Earth? Their trajectory suggests no other destination, Captain. Earth may be his next stop, but we have to assume every Federation planet's a target. Yes, agreed-- but why didn't they destroy us? Why waste a weapon? We weren't a threat. That's not it. He said he wanted me to see something. The destruction of my home planet. And how the hell did they do that by the way? When did they jump so far ahead in the arms race? The engineering comprehension necessary to artificially create a black hole may suggest the answer: such technology could theoretically be manipulated to create a tunnel through space time. Damnit, man, I'm a doctor, not a physicist -- are you suggesting they're from the future? That is what he's suggesting and don't buy it. If you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains -- however improbable -- must be the truth. How poetic. Then what would an angry future Romulan want with Captain Pike? As Admiral he knows details of Starfleet's defenses. What we need to do is catch up to that ship. Disable it, take it over and get Pike back. They're all looking at Kirk like he's nuts. (bitingly) Fantastic, I'm in. Captain Pike left us with standing orders to rendezvous with the fleet on the other side of the quadrant. We're technologically outmatched in every way. rescue attempt would be illogical. "Illogical"-- you're funny. Not to mention we couldn't do it anyway: Nero's ship would have to drop out of warp for us to overtake them -- -- what about assigning Engineering crews to try and boost our warp yield? Remaining power and crew are being used to repair radiation leaks on the lower decks and damage to the main deflector shield-- without which we cannot communicate with -- okay--okay, okayokayokay-- Starfleet. there's gotta be We must gather with the rest of Starfleet to balance the terms of our next engagement -- There won't be a next engagement, Spock: by the time we've "gathered", it'll be too late -- how many planets are you willing to risk? You say he's from the future? Knows what's gonna happen? Then the logical thing is to be unpredictable. You're assuming Nero knows how events are predicted to unfold. The contrary: Nero's very presence has altered the flow of history, beginning with the attack on the Kelvin, culminating in the events of today -- thereby creating a new chain of incidents that cannot be anticipated by either party. Does anyone understand him? (stunned) ... an alternate reality. Precisely. Whatever lives we might have lived, if the time continuum was disrupted... our destinies have changed. (then:) Mr. Sulu, plot a course for the Laurentian system, Warp Factor Three-- -- wait-- don't do that -- Spock -- running back to the rest of the fleet for a confab is a massive waste of time-- -- These were the orders -- He also ordered us to go Captain Pike issued when he back and get him! Spock, left ship-- you're Captain now--! -- am aware of my -- Every second we waste, responsibilities, Mr. Kirk! Nero's getting closer to his next target--! -- that is correct -- and why I'm instructing you to accept -- will not allow us to go that alone am in command. backwards, away from the problem, instead of hunting -- then must remove you from Nero down! this ship. If confine you to the brig, you'll likely escape. Mr. Chekov: have transportation prepare a deployment capsule. Mr. Sulu, escort him out. For a beat, nobody moves -- an impossible choice for all of them. Torn, Chekov and Sulu close in on Kirk -- I'm sorry. Yeah, don't worry ab -- -- but Kirk Sulu jerks, spins, Kirk's wrist! Kirk him as Chekov reaches for his but Kirk the phaser -- Kirk reaches for it but Spock's fingers on Kirk's neck: On strapped to a Nero looks down upon him. You are only the second human have ever met, face to face. You must have so many questions for me. (then) only have one for you. need the subspace frequencies of Starfleet's border detection grids. Specifically those surrounding Earth. Pike looks up at him -- quiet rage. Then -- Christopher Pike -- Captain, Enterprise, registry Christopher. (beat; hardcore) Answer my question. No. You answer for the genocide you just committed on a peaceful planet-- prevented genocide. (beat, calms) Where come from, Christopher... this ship is just a mining vessel. chose a life of honest labor to provide for myself... and the wife who was carrying my child. (beat) sit here now... knowing you as enemies. Not just of today. But of tomorrow. watched as your Federation did nothing. They let us burn to death... as our planet broke in half. Curiosity behind Pike's eyes. Then Nero, you're confused. Romulus has not been destroyed. How can you blame the Federation for something that hasn't happened--? It did happen. remember it. felt it. (then; pained) When lost her... promised myself would not speak another word until the day of my retribution. In twenty five years forgot the sound of my own voice... but didn't forget the pain. That feeling cannot be erased. (turning to anger now) feeling that every surviving Vulcan now shares. Pike just looks at him. Sees how fucking far he is. If what you say is true... you can save Romulus. You have a second chance to -- -- yes, which is a gift won't waste on mercy. (beat) My purpose, Christopher, is not simply to avoid the destruction of the home love... (beat) ... but to create a Romulus which exists, free of the Federation. Only then will she be saved. And the "she" could refer to the planet... or to Nero's lost love. Either way, Pike knows a losing battle when he's fighting one. Ever so nobly, he quietly says -- Then we have nothing more to discuss. Nero reaches for something under the counter Pike lies upon. Retrieves -- inside -- the very ones used on Nero. It's not the fault of the human race that Starfleet chose Earth as its center. You're a more noble race than my fallen cousins. I'll take no pleasure in your extinction. How reassuring. Nero opens the container, reaches for a pair of The frequencies, please. Christopher Pike -- Captain, Enterprise, registry Nero sad-smiles. What he expected. As you wish. -- Nero uses the tongs -- and Our is We come into on a blinking instrument panel. is stirring awake, his shoulder kills. He sits up: inside a He -- looks up -- like a 30 feet long, to the sky. Kirk's been He closes his eyes, his face falls... Computer... where am Current location Delta Vega: Class Planet, unsafe. You have been ordered to remain in your pod until retrieved by Starfleet authorities. Bite me, how's that. The -- a blast of cold air hits Kirk -- with some agony, out he goes -- he -- and gets to the surface -- looks out. Finally: along a massive Kirk walking along, cold, pissed... whips out a speaks into it: Lieutenant's log, supplemental: I'm preparing a testimonial for my Starfleet court martial assuming there's still a Starfleet left. From overhead, what we see -- what Kirk doesn't -- is something beneath the ice -- Acting Captain Spock -- whose only form of expression's apparently limited to his left damn eyebrow -- has marooned me on Delta Vega in what believe to be a violation of security protocol 49.09, governing the treatment of prisoners aboard a st-- Kirk at a nearby He looks -- sees nothing -- then -- he turns -- some thirty feet away, an eleven foot-tall cross between a polar bear and a gorilla (it's a steps out from behind a mass of ice. Sees Kirk. It's horrifying. Kirk takes a -- and the fucking thing -- -- and the -- gaining -- it's gonna -- -- and we see that Kirk is The huge red creature stops at the edge and -- until the ice shelf The creature starts to Now Kirk is the immense creature not far behind! And Kirk -- sees a distant Looks up at the that is about to -- Kirk tries to run, but the ice is -- he gets footing and runs off toward the cave -- as the red creature -- its sharp into the ice as it pursues Kirk -- Kirk races through the darkened cave -- the creature comes after him -- Kirk goes as fast as he can -- the creature reaches out and fucking -- pulls him toward the disgusting, wet, -- Kirk tries to hold on to anything he can -- but he's fucking -- and just as you're there's -- -- and a -- And the red creature's eyes -- and it and -- the figure until it's gone. Kirk, on the ground, is freaked out, out of breath, and can't take his eyes off this man... who says: The Hen-Gra. Notoriously afraid of heat. And the Figure turns... we may have recognized the voice. As in Lit in the darkness by the fire. We'll refer to him as He looks at Kirk -- moves closer to him -- finally seeing him. And is amazed... Hey... thank you... ... Jim? (stunned) -- how d'you know my name? How did you find me--? Does Starfleet know of my presence? Spock looks deep into the eyes of the freaked out young man, feeling the full effect of fate playing its hand, but realizing he doesn't recognize him... have been... and always shall be... your friend. -- no, don't know you -- the only Vulcan know isn't exactly a buddy. Of all the things Spock predicted Kirk might say, it wasn't that. He's analyzing a thousand steps ahead, calculating: You are James Kirk. Your father is George, as is your brother. Your mother's name is Winona -- you were born in 2233 -- Stop. Please. don't understand. As Spock nods, we ... am Spock. One hundred and thirty years senior to the Vulcan you know. (beat, beat, beat) Bullshit. Firelight flickers -- shadows of Kirk and Spock Prime dance on the ice walls. Remarkable outside. It's remarkably pleasing to see you again. (re: Vulcan) ... especially after the events of today. Old friend. Sir, don't have any idea how you know what you know. But don't know you and if you are Spock we're not friends. You hate me. You marooned me here for mutiny... Mutiny? You are not the Captain? You're the captain. Pike was taken hostage. (realizing, grave) ... by Nero. What do you know about him? (guilty, burdened) ... he is a remarkably... troubled Romulan. (then) ... Please. Allow me -- it will be easier-- Spock Prime reaches for Kirk's face -- Kirk grabs his wrist -- What're you doing--? skeptical beat, but Kirk finally releases his hand. Spock gently places his fingers on Kirk's cheek and temple -- (whispering; a mantra) Our minds... one and together...One hundred and twenty-seven years from now everything ends. Spock's eyes Kirk as if by an electric charge -- and the as we our An like a star in Beta Quadrant will go supernova -- and like a cancer left untreated... it will grow... and destroy everything. Now we're seeing -- where study a of this event -- the star's its -- and is among them -- saw the beginning of it myself. Vulcan Science Academy devised a plan to stop it. as the is under construction -- We built a ship containing a material capable of generating the only thing powerful enough to consume a supernova. black hole. Now we're the ship -- the -- being by Vulcan Scientists -- agreed to pilot the ship. Knowing would not return. 164 Now we see Spock Prime, in a ritual ceremony of a Vulcan 164 Kamikaze pilot. Tea, sipped inside the Ark -- My sacrifice, in service of all races, seemed only logical. Now Spock Prime sits in the Jellyfish -- Unfortunately... before could begin the mission... the supernova destroyed Romulus. 166 -- and suddenly we're as 166 Nero's planet was destroyed-- Yes. He of course blamed us. Believed Vulcan allowed his planet to die. Which was hardly the case. Let me continue. This annoys me, don't like -- know, know, I'm not it-- do we have to do it like surprised to hear you complain this--? -- allow me to finish. Spock Prime touches Kirk again and we go: -- the -- and we -- and see the in the infinite distance -- no sense of scale here -- but then -- -- at the Jellyfish. Nero came after me. Determined to thwart my mission. If Romulus was allowed to die, he said... all planets should share its fate. needed an exit. knew if this mission failed... everyone, everywhere... would lose everything. Spock Prime the cockpit -- Prime -- and enters as he realized: a large black hole could destroy the supernova. smaller one... could be my escape. Could send me back in time, allowing me to complete my mission. So created a black hole... Spock loads the with a small amount of into a -- -- and he -- Spock Prime back in the cockpit -- takes aim on his controls and -- Spock Prime -- Nero must have understood what was trying to do. Because he began racing for it. The and the aiming for the -- Spock Prime watches as the -- -- then -- Nero simply got to it first. How long was travelling... couldn't tell you. It was timeless. But when arrived... on Spock Prime's face goes away -- he and the Jellyfish are back in -- -- but now, facing him, is the Nero was waiting for me. having been there with Spock Prime. Back to the two men, in a cave: Kirk stares at him... his mind spinning because now he believes him. The result is overwhelmingly emotional. Forgive me... emotional transference is an effect of the mind meld. (sympathy, surprise) ... so you do feel... "Cthia" is the stricture that binds our emotions... but few of us are that perfectly Vulcan. Kirk gathers himself, wipes his eyes on his sleeve... Going back in time... you changed all our lives. Yet remarkably, events within our timelines, characteristics, people... seem to overlap significantly. Tell me about the rest of the crew? Chekov-- Uhura --? Tactical and Communications -- -- Sulu -- -- he's the helmsman, why? Dr. McCoy would assert our meeting here is not a matter of coincidence... but rather, indication of a higher purpose. ... he'd call it a damn miracle. Yes he would. Perhaps the time stream's way of attempting to mend itself. In both our histories, the same crew found its way onto the same ship in a time of ultimate crisis -- therein lies our advantage. (rises) We must go-- there's a Starfleet outpost not far from here. But Kirk stands -- stops him: Where you came from... did know my father? ... yes. You often spoke of him as your inspiration for joining starfleet. This is amazing for Kirk -- he looks off, trying to imagine that life. Spock intuits what this means. You should know. He proudly lived to see you become captain of the Enterprise. ... Captain? ship we must return you to as soon as possible. The Enterprise through frame in a warp blur -- Sulu at his controls: Warp three. Course one-five-one mark three, the Laurentian System. The turbolift opens -- McCoy enters, moves to Spock: You wanted to see me? (discreet tone) Yes, Doctor. I'm aware that James Kirk is a friend of yours. Supporting me, as you did, must have been difficult. ... are you thanking me? I'm simply acknowledging your difficulties. We're not sure how McCoy is taking this... Permission to speak freely, Sir. welcome it. Do you. Okay then: are you out of your Vulcan mind? Were you doing the logical thing? Maybe. The right one? Debatable. But one thing's for damn sure -- that kid doesn't know how to lose. Just isn't in his Back home we have a saying: "If you're gonna ride in the Kentucky Derby, don't leave your prize stallion in the stable." ... a curious metaphor, Doctor. As a stallion must first be broken before it can reach its potential. My God, Man... you could at least act like it was a hard decision. intended to assist in the effort to re- establish communication with Starfleet. However, if crew morale would be better served by my roaming the halls weeping, I'll gladly defer to your medical expertise. strong look and Spock turns away as Sarek enters the bridge. Spock moves to meet him. Off McCoy, fuming -- fucking Kirk and Spock Prime move through the maddening whiteout. Kirk yells through it: And Spock -- an -- half a mile away. Long tile corridor. The door at the end opens -- as Kirk and Spock Prime enter. Door closes. Silence again. ... hello?! Echo. Nothing. They head down. After a beat, a Eyes them curiously. This is ... can help you? Are you the station chief? Keenser looks them over. Then: ... no. This way. And they follow Keenser into a filled mostly with junked space parts. large, tarped in the background. In the middle of the huge, depressing space is a table. And a who is legs kicked up, leaning back in a chair, a hat covering his face. Keenser taps the Officer's boot. Hm. Visitors. beat -- and the Officer peers from under his hat. cool, slow burn. You realize how unacceptable this is. Excuse me? (re: the Officer) ... Fascinating. What? Officer stands, unhappy about something. Keeser watches nearby -- I'm sure it's no' your fault, and know youse lads are just doing your jobs, but could you no' have come a wee bit sooner?! Six months I've been living on nothing but Starfleet Protein Nibs and the promise of a real food delivery! Six months, boys! It's pretty clear what's going on here, isn't it? Punishment! Ongoing! For something that was clearly an accident! You're Montgomery Scott. You know him? Yes, that's me -- Scotty-- you're in the right place-- are there any other hard- working and equally-starving Starfleet officers around? Me. You eat nothing. bean and you're done for a week, need food. And now you're here -- so. Thank you. Where is it. You are in fact the Mr. Scott who postulated the theory of trans-warp beaming. Yes! That's exactly what I'm talking about! How d'ya think ended up here? got into a debate with my instructor on the issue of Relativistic Physics as they pertain to subspace travel... He seemed to think that the range of transporting say, a roast turkey, was limited to a few hundred miles -- so told my instructor could not only beam a bird from one planet to an adjacent planet in the same system -- which is no big deal anyway -- but if were so inclined could actually do it with a lifeform! So tested it on Admiral Archer's prize beagle. Which... was a mistake. know that dog. What happened to it? I'll tell ya when it reappears. Dunno. Feel guilty. What if told you your trans-warp theory was correct? That it is indeed possible to beam onto a ship that is travelling at warp speed. And that you only required the correct field equation to recrystallize dilithium? haven't been stationed here that long. If such an equation had been discovered, I'da heard. The reason you haven't heard of it, Mr. Scott... is because you haven't discovered it yet. Kirk reacts. Scotty reacts -- is almost spooked -- sobers up a bit... really regards Spock Prime. Skeptical. Amused. Y'from the future, are ya? Brilliant. D'they still have sandwiches where you're from? Piece and jam? Mince 'n tatties? Cockaleekie soup? What is he talking about? Food. Allow us access to your shuttle... and will show you what a genius you actually are. Off Scotty, who can't help but be intrigued -- Scotty over much of the out-of-service shuttle. She's a wee bit dodgy: shield emitters are totally banjaxed, along wi' a few other things. Spock finishes speed-typing the on the -- amazingly fast. ... rapid. That's impressive. Spock Prime steps aside: Your equation for achieving trans-warp beaming. Scotty looks at the equations -- we watch his expression run the gamut: from confused, to dumbfounded, to quiet awe and delight: Imagine that! Never occurred to me to think of space as the part that's moving. Point of fact: it did occur to you. (he works the console) Extrapolating Enterprise's course -- -- Enterprise? Had its maiden voyage already, has it? Well, you must've done something right to be assigned to that ship, Kiddo. She's a well endowed lady -- love to get my hands on her ample nacelles, if you'll pardon the engineering parlance. Now's your chance, Mr. Scott. Look, even if believed you -- where you're from, what I've done-- which don't -- we're still talkin' bout slingshotting aboard while she's going faster than light. Without a proper receiving pad, that's like tryin'a hit a bullet with a smaller bullet, wearing a blindfold. On a horse. calculate no more than a four meter margin of error. That's all well and good unless you rematerialize four meters outside the ship. As Spock works the keyboard, an rotates: Agreed: the aft engineering bay is your best option: a large space and no unpredictable airlocks -- -- you're coming with us, right? No, Jim. My destiny lies along a different path. Your destiny can wait -- he (simply, strong) won't believe me, only you can Under no circumstances can he explain w-- be made aware of my existence. You must promise me this. You're telling me can't tell you I'm following your own orders? Why not? What happens? Trust me. Above all. Jim, this is the one rule you cannot break. To stop Nero, you alone must take command of your ship. How, over your dead body? Preferably not. There is, however, Starfleet Regulation 619. (off Kirk's confusion) Yes. forget what little regard you had for such things. 619 states that any commanding officer who is emotionally compromised by the mission at hand... must resign said command. So need to emotionally compromise you? Jim. just lost my planet. can tell you. am emotionally compromised. (then) What you must do... is get me to show it. as this lands for him -- Hm. Aye, then. Live or die, Laddie, let's get this over with. he Enterprise has a decent cafeteria I'm guessing. Scotty's on the pad. Kirk follows, looks at Spock: You know... coming back in time... changing history... that's cheating. trick learned from an old friend. Something strikes Kirk -- his eyes with revelation. Spock responds enigmatically: a silent acknowledgment of what Kirk must do to get the ship. He raises his hand in the legendary Vulcan salute: Live long, and prosper. And Spock activates the transporter and they -- the light plays off his face as he watches them vanish -- The Enterprise at warp -- Amid the of the ship's plasma drives, rematerialize... it's eyes wide in suspense. He looks down at his legs, his chest, his arms to make sure he's still in one piece, glances over to share his relief with Scotty... strange -- Kirk turns: the is coming from a large metal -- then Scotty appears in a -- -- -- Kirk's mind races -- he looks around for a way to save his new friend -- just then a inside the tube -- -- no-- shit! And Kirk runs after him -- down the length of the and tubes -- every time he enters a -- then again into the tubes -- and Scotty gets sucked -- and Kirk turns and looks -- -- essentially? -- no--nonono-- And Kirk to the control panel -- we see the huge machine -- overhead, the under the pipe -- and Kirk works as fast as he can -- -- like the simulator: manual control enabled, pressure seal: enabled -- shutdown-- -- but the Turbine Shutdown Not Allowed. display on the forward console, an -- Keptin, we're detecting unauthorized access to a water turbine control board! Spock moves from Sarek to Chekov -- Bring up video. Chekov brings up Spock points to one -- it -- and we see racing through the ship -- Spock's eyes narrow -- he moves to the Captain's chair -- hits comm: Security, this is the captain -- seal engineering deck and bring me the intruders in turbine station three -- set phasers to stun. as -- Kirk, accesses the -- he watches Scotty disappear through a -- Kirk times it -- waiting -- then he and Scotty -- hurt, wet, but deeply -- You all right? (recovering, looking around) -- nice -- (cough) -- ship. Really. -- let's get to the bridge-- Kirk and wet Scotty race through the ship -- only to finally turn a corner and be faced with But suddenly are at their heads. Two -- one, Come with me. Moon Beam. Off Kirk -- shit -- -- bridge doors open -- Kirk and Scotty are ushered in by the Security Guards. Spock moves to them, containing his anger and dismay. McCoy is here as well. Spock walks right up to Kirk... raises his eyebrow. Surprise. (to Scotty) Who are you? He's with me. We're travelling at warp -- how did you manage to get aboard this ship? Kirk stares at the young Spock -- a different experience now -- You're the genius, you figure it out. As Captain of this vessel order you to answer the question. Well I'm not telling. (then) Captain. That confounds Spock. And Kirk is off to the races -- Does that frustrate you? My lack of cooperation... does it make you angry? Spock again focuses on Scotty -- You are not a member of this ship's crew. Under penalty of court martial, order you to explain to me how you beamed ab -- (to Scotty) -- Don't answer him. You will answer me. Weighing all this. Then -- I'd rather not take sides. Spock nods back to the over this -- Escort them to the Brig. But before the guards can do so -- What is it about you, Spock? Your planet was just destroyed -- your mother murdered -- and you're not even upset? Your presumption that these experiences interfere with my abilities to command this ship is inaccurate-- And yet you said fear was necessary for command. mean -- did you see that bastard's ship? Did you see what he did? (tense) Yes, of course So are you afraid or aren't you?!? (tenser) will not... allow you to lecture me about the merits of emotion. Kirk gets close to Spock -- Then why don't you stop me. Sarek watches, tense. McCoy, too. Spock blinks -- Step away from me, Mr. Kirk. What is it like? Not to feel? Anger. Or heartbreak. Or the need to stop at nothing to avenge the death of the woman who gave birth to you?! (volcanic) -- back away -- (closer still) You must not feel anything! It must not even compute for you! You must not have loved her at all--! -- -- and Kirk goes to hit back, but Spock fucking -- Security stand back as the Captain attacks... And Spock is now fucking Kirk -- Spock! And everything -- everything -- Spock, red-faced, releases his grip. Kirk air and tumbles to the ground. Spock staggers back. Kirk's hardly able to speak, close to collapsing. But despite his brutalized face, his expression isn't about spite, or hatred... but compassion. Spock sees the faces of the staring at him. But worst of all? Sarek. His father. Spock levels his chin. Quickly wipes his eyes. Trying to regain some semblance of dignity... looks to McCoy. Softly -- Doctor. am no longer fit for duty. hereby relinquish my command on the grounds that have been... emotionally compromised. Please note the time and date in the ship's log. Spock just... And after a beat, he leaves the room. Sarek follows a moment later. The crew just stands there in stunned Finally -- like this ship. It's exciting. McCoy turns to Kirk, exasperated -- Congratulations, Jim. Now we've got no Captain and no first officer to goddamn replace him. The moment is upon him. Yeah we do. The -- confused. Sulu just fucking at Kirk and they all realize -- Pike made the First Officer before he left! Thanks for the support! And Kirk moves to the captain's chair, passing Uhura: sure hope you know what you're doing. ... so do (studies chair, sits, into mic) Attention crew of the Enterprise. This is James Kirk... hearing the announcement as he walks stoically -- past hearing this -- Mr. Spock has resigned commission and advanced me to acting Captain. know you were all expecting to regroup with the fleet, but I've ordered a pursuit course of the enemy ship to Earth. On as he ends the announcement: want all departments at battle stations and ready in ten minutes. Either we're going down, or they are. Kirk out. Clicks off. staring off -- want some answers. He looks up. Uhura is there. Pissed off: Right now. Where the hell'd you get trans-warp technology? -- yeah, you know that's complicated -- Do look simple to you?! I'm a PhD in astrophysics, think can handle it -- how'd you get back? You vant us to trust you but you von't tell us the truth? No. No, won't-- hey, I'm the Captain now! don't have to tell you anything! Now listen: we need to figure out a way to catch up and get to Nero's ship. There's not a chance. They're gonna be in geosynchronous orbit around Earth in ten minutes. We'll never make it. Even if we could, you can't go in guns blazing, not with their technology, that's suicide. Then we find a way to get on that ship and steal the black hole device away from them. Well you can forget transwarp. No way to predict the Narada's position from here. Uhura: anything from Captain Pike? No... I've been monitoring all channels. stand here, staring at the place where his mother should have, but didn't, arrive. Sarek enters. Sees his son. They're alone for the first time in ages. beat: You must not punish yourself. (beat) Speak your mind, Spock. That would be unwise. What is necessary is always wise. Watch Spock's face. Struggling with what's pent-up inside... feel as conflicted as once was. As a child. Have made so little progress? (beat, softly) You will always be a child of two worlds. am grateful for that. And for you. (painfully) And not only because you are all have left of her. Spock looks at Sarek. This is as close to emotion as he'll get. feel anger. For the one who took her life. An anger cannot stop. believe she would say... do not try to. (then) You asked me once. Why married your mother. (beat, simply) married her because loved her. Their look -- and for Spock, a revelation... -- the strategy session continues in -- now Chekov, the youngest of the bunch, gets up the courage to chime in, incidently becoming the very first officer to say: Keptin Kirk? Excuse me, plees, could All eyes shift to the wonder-kid who awaits permission to speak: Yes, Chekov-- you don't need to ask permission to-- Based on the Narada's course from Vulcan, I've projected that Nero will travel past Saturn. If we could drop out of warp behind one of Saturn's moons, say, Titan, the magnetic distortion from the planet's rings will make us invisible to Nero's sensors. We could follow him to Earth by staying in his blind spot. What blind spot? Its exhaust wake. If we adjust our shield frequencies, they shouldn't detect us. Wait a minute-- anyone understand this kid? How old are you? am seventeen, Sir, how old are you? We're all old enough to shave here. Doctor... Mr. Chekov is correct. Everyone turns, surprised: has entered the bay -- galvanized, full of purpose -- have reviewed his telemetry. If Mr. Sulu can maneuver us into position, can beam aboard Nero's ship. won't order you to do that, Mr. Spock. Romulans and Vulcans share a common ancestry. Our cultural similarities will make it easier for me to access their ship's computer to locate the device. (beat; a flicker of emotion) Also, my mother was human. Which makes Earth the only home have left. The crew looks at this very courageous Vulcan with deep respect - - but his focus is on Uhura, whose eyes smile back at him. Then I'm coming with you. (beat, considering) would cite regulation, but know you will simply ignore it. See, we're getting to know each other. And a -- a burgeoning friendship -- and even though it's in shadow, you start to recognize it as ascends now to see: And we move past it, along the orbit of the moon, cresting the horizon to see -- -- his face illuminated on the of the Narada by Light radiated by before him. He doesn't notice behind him, as those from his Nero tenses, only now sensing this unforeseen danger: Strong. Tough. But under it all... terrified. The men and have discussed this. What we are about to do. (beat) We have to turn the ship around. We can save our home. Nero turns slowly and deliberately -- Ayel tenses: Stop. Nero now faces Ayel, blades at his throat -- Ayel growing more nervous as he faces his master. The surrounding crew stare on, frozen in the moment, only slightly confirming their makeshift mutiny with scared looks. We can go back. That's what we want. We have taken our vengeance on Vulcan. No more. We want to go home now. Nero considers this... nods gently. There is no need, Ayel. To threaten me. (beat) understand. Ayel is massively relieved. Nero gently reaches out, holds the staff (still aimed at him). He deactivates it -- the blades instantly understand. But you are wrong. And just as Ayel realizes he's fucked, Nero somehow activates the staff in a way we have not seen -- Nero's hard face turns to the rest of his crew. We will return to Romulus when the Federation lies in ruins and not a moment before. When those who watched our people burn at last understand our pain, our loss. refuse to return as a slave! We will return as conquerors! our -- and then, his eyes on Earth like a fucking eyes a gazelle-- Deploy the drill. open as they No sign of Kirk and Spock. Sulu's in the captain's chair. Chekov at helm. Mr. Chekov, transfer manual control to the Captain's chair. Aye. (works controls) I've projected the parabolic course you must follow. If you deviate by so much as a meter, we will be detected. Give me one quarter impulse burst for five seconds and I'll do the rest with thrusters. On my mark. Three... two... one... fire. The impulse engines shutting off as the ship slips out from behind the moon and into open space -- Sulu makes rapid-fire thruster combinations to stay on track -- a stealthy ballet of incredible dexterity. appears over the horizon in geosynchronous orbit, passing underneath the Enterprise as they arc in behind it. All stop in three... two... one... The small Enterprise pulls into position behind the massive Narada's and comes to a gentle stop. Tension -- Transporter Room. We're in stable geosynchronous orbit behind the Narada. (scanning) No sign they've detected us -- and ready themselves for transport. and of course, -- (on Communicator) Well done, Mr. Sulu. Whatever happens Mr. Sulu, if you feel you have a tactical advantage fire on that ship. Even if we're still aboard. It's an order. Yessir. Good luck. Spock turns to Uhura, who hands him a small We'll be monitoring your frequency... Uhura gives the translator to Spock -- Thank you, Nyota. They part, revealing Uhura walks off, leaving the two men -- Kirk looking stunned at Spock. Her first name is... have no comment on the matter. Kirk still stunned as Scotty moves to transporter control. If there's any common sense to their ship design, I'll be puttin' ya in a cargo bay, shouldn't be a soul in sight. - The moment of truth. Energize. Scotty hits the transport and Kirk and Spock -- Kirk and Spock in the cargo bay... to find themselves suddenly smack-dab in the middle of working at cargo consoles!! For a split second they're as shocked as Kirk and Spock, until they -- Kirk immediately engages the closest Romulan, struggles -- but Spock's a machine: his palm snaps up a nose -- a head against the wall -- as battle-ready as the Romulans are, it's like trying to catch a Kirk finally knocks his one opponent unconscious, and turns to see it's (a touch insecure) Mine had a gun. am trained in the Vulcan martial art of Suus Mahna. Kirk and Spock move to a still conscious Romulan as he struggles to get up. Spock reaches for the fallen Romulan's temples. am unable to meld with these Romulans -- there are subtle differences in their physiology did not anticipate -- -- punch him in the face -- make him talk! Suus Mahna his -- Suss Mahna is only intended ass! for self-defense, he's no longer a threat -- -- then pretend it's a threat - - I'm your captain, that's an order! Spock the Romulan -- and via Uhura's comlink translator, speaks in What is your computer access code? The guard green blood at Spock, who him again -- The plasma drill is repaired and fully deployed. Good. Let's begin. The plasma beam -- massive Cadets to see the horrific sight of the plasma beam -- As Uhura returns to the bridge, everyone's stations go -- on screens -- They've activated the drill -- Communications and transporter inoperative -- They're on their own now. -- Spock typing at a console, searching -- accesses two inter-cam windows: on one, -- in a lower containment hold -- on the other: unclear if he's dead or alive. What you refer to as the "Red Matter Device" is in the main hangar -- and I've located Captain Pike. Is he alive? Unknown. Let's move. They cover each other with phasers as they move down the hall -- Captain Pike's shuttle and the Jellyfish sit parked among the equipment. Kirk and Spock stealthily board the Jellyfish -- Kirk hits a console, a familiar voice comes to life: Voice print and face recognition analysis enabled. Spock, you'll be piloting the ship alone. Which may be problematic, as am unfamiliar with this ship's design. scans his features for Welcome back, Ambassador Spock. (awkwardly) Wow. That's weird. He looks to Kirk in surprise -- Spock's eyes fix with sudden understanding. Ambassador Spock... of course... suddenly all the pieces start coming together... Computer: what is your manufacturing origin? Stardate 2397, commissioned by the Vulcan Science Academy. Spock looks at Kirk, a touch upset: It appears you've been keeping rather important information from me. Just trust me. Can ya do that? Spock weigh his options. Trust. Finally: I'll get Pike. Kirk exits -- Kirk moves through various areas of the ship -- Spock works the control -- fires up the craft -- -- he starts it up -- the ship begins to -- and with the enormous now -- Spock turns the ship and as -- The ship from within -- -- Primary core rupture, warp engines off- line! Someone has detonated weapons in the main hangar! Restore power! Engage auxiliary systems! As the bridge crew fights to regain control: The drill's been severed! Ambassador Spock's ship has been stolen as is heading out of the solar system! beat -- the Romulan Commander looks up from his console: (darkly) ... Spock. Nero's fucking mega rage -- The Narada turns -- accelerates in pursuit of the Jellyfish and -- and now we're back to the imagery of the first few moments of the movie -- (to comms officer) Open a channel -- Channel Open -- Spock -- should've killed you when had the chance. Under authority granted me by the Europa convention, I'm confiscating this illegally obtained ship and order you to surrender your vessel. No terms. No deals. And Nero? Just grins in perfect contentment... You can't cheat me again, Spock. know you better than you know yourself. Last warning: unconditional surrender or you will be destroyed. (to his Men) Fire at will. Sir-- if you ignite the red matter, the-- want Spock dead! Fire! Nero hurries to the controls -- operates them himself and -- -- -- and to the jellyfish, which performs evasive maneuvers -- the torpedoes as -- Kirk moves through shadow into an airlock shaft, starts climbing ladder rungs -- The earth receding far behind it -- Spock veers to avoid being blown apart -- Nero's ship gaining -- firing -- Kirk moves through the space -- into the where he finds -- Kirk begins unfastening his binds. Pike sees him through his fog -- amazed -- ... Kirk? Came back, Sir. Just like you ordered. Kirk helps -- but what he are the entering with weapons -- But God bless him, does: summoning his last ounce of strength, he manages to Safe, he dropping the phaser -- The Narada again, a gash in the Jellyfish's side. An array -- ... you should've fled, Spock. Sight target, standby torpedoes... Warning: Shields off-line. On Spock -- bad as things are, they just got worse -- his mind until: Computer, prepare self destruct sequence. And the Jellyfish -- a new course -- bravely facing certain death -- on a collision course with the Narada -- looks like he's gonna sacrifice himself -- and we assume he'll pull away at the last second, of course he will, but he As the ship's Nero sees the black hole through the cockpit window: --Uhura, McCoy, a and race in as Scotty finishes receiving incoming signals: (to Transporter Chief) Nice timing, Lieutenant -- Never beamed two targets from two places onto the same pad before! That was pretty good! Kirk transfers Pike to McCoy, who urgently Pike and barks to a -- we're gonna need gastric stimulators, let's prep him for surgery, now! Everyone's off their feet -- consoles fry -- -- Nero-- it's the Enterprise! Nero's eyes come -- and race back onto the bridge -- Keptin! The enemy ship is losing power-- its shields are down! Hail them -- now! appears on screen from the Narada bridge -- the Narada's on its last legs -- a beat before Nero realizing Kirk's fucking at him from the screen: This is Captain James Kirk of the Enterprise -- your ship is compromised -- too close to the singularity to survive without assistance -- which we are willing to provide. (sotto) Captain -- what are you doing? (sotto) We show them compassion-- it may be the only way to earn peace with Romulus. It's logic, Spock! thought you'd like that. No, not really, not this time. would rather suffer the death of Romulus a thousand times than accept assistance from you. You got it. (turns) Lock phasers! Fire everything we've got! Kirk to Engineering: get us out of here, Scotty! -- you bet yer ass, Captain -- The walls are pull free from their moorings, into the ever-expanding sphere -- -- Forgive me... Romulus... Leaving only the Enterprise -- its nacelles as the ship tries to make the quantum leap -- the black hole's now a so insanely strong that the Enterprise is held in place by the gravity well even at warp! trying to cut loose but it -- Scotty into the com against the (last desperate thought) Scotty the activation panel and we see the eject down a tube, like an -- Everyone white-knuckles their seats as the blast and our crew sits, wide-eyed, trembling... finally, truly safe. Back home. Spock is seen in a medical office with Pike, who lies in bed, recovering -- McCoy monitors him - Spock exits -- walks through the corridor -- sees a in silhouette, staring out at the Academy. Sarek. Spock moves to him -- says quietly: Father...? Sarek turns -- but Who says: am not... our father. An incredible beat, our two Spocks in eye lock... both minds processing conversational possibilities at an incredible rate... surreal extensions of each other, separate but connected... ... Fascinating. There are so few Vulcans left. We cannot afford to ignore each other. Young Spock's eyes flicker in puzzlement... Then why did you send Kirk aboard when you alone could've explained the truth? (beat, simply) Because you needed each other. Opposing yet complimentary opposites. It was that balance between us -- should say you and Kirk -- that often made the impossible, possible. ... it was a test? (no: his heart heavy) I'm in no position to pass judgment... my actions have robbed you of much. could not also deprive you the revelation of all you can accomplish together... of a friendship that will define you both in ways you cannot yet realize. There is, to young Spock's surprise, vulnerability in that. How did you persuade him to keep your secret? inferred universe-ending paradoxes would ensue should he break his promise. You lied. implied. gamble... An act of faith. One hope you'll repeat in the future. Young Spock considers an enduring friendship between him and Kirk... for the first time, understanding it. But -- The future's not what it used to be... in the face of extinction, it's only logical resign my Starfleet commission and help rebuild our race. And yet, you are in a unique position... you can be in two places at once. (beat) urge you to remain in Starfleet: I've already located a suitable planet on which to establish a Vulcan colony, and assist in the foundation of a new science academy. Young Spock takes that in, resolute... My future cannot be determined by your past. We are one, but not the same. Then ask that you do yourself a favor. Put away logic. Do what feels right. The world you've inherited lives in the shadow of incalculable devastation... but there's no reason you must face it alone. Spock Prime moves to the door, stops. Offers the As my customary farewell would appear oddly self serving, will simply say... good luck. Their eyes hold. Spock turns, disappearing into the corridor. Young Spock stares at the empty doorway a beat, his mind a jumble of thoughts... and our As Spock Prime walks off down the corridor, he passes right by a man conferring with a nurse -- the man pauses, turns... it's Suddenly overcome by a feeling that the stranger who's just passed him is... oddly familiar. -- glass walls reveal at dock, floating around it, repairing. Standing at attention in rows, -- over four hundred of them wearing -- the faces, all proud -- and we Composed, focused, a man. The stands at a podium: This assembly calls Captain James Tiberius Kirk... Kirk breaks from formation, pivots, marches down the hangar -- past All Beaming. Notably absent, is Spock. Kirk ascends the stairs, snaps to attention: Your inspirational valor and supreme dedication to your comrades are in keeping with the highest traditions of service and reflect utmost credit to yourself, your crew, and the Federation. For your... unique solution to the Kobayashi Maru, it's my honor to award you with a commendation for original thinking. He opens a -- glorious in repose, a By Starfleet Order 28455, you are hereby directed to report to Commanding Officer, Enterprise, for duty as his relief. Kirk turns. Walks to... In a wheelchair now, wearing an Overnight, his hair's turned totally grey -- but despite his trauma, his pride's overwhelming. They relieve you, Sir. am relieved. Congratulations, Captain. Pike containing a smirk, pins the medal to Kirk's chest. Thank you, Sir. Kirk turns to the crowd. Eyes shining. As Kirk rejoins his crew for hugs and congratulations, we go to the of the hangar... Watching. Moved beyond words. He turns and leaves them to it... and our as -- The turbolift open and in walks Kirk -- to every fan's delight, wearing his iconic All around him, our crew -- young and fresh-faced but no longer children -- in charge of the greatest starship ever built: Maneuvering thrusters and impulse engines at your command, Sir. Weapons systems and shields on standby. Dock control reports ready. Yard Command signalling clear. Scotty how are we? Dilithium chamber at maximum efficiency, Captain. (wry grin) Same ship, different day. And Kirk pauses. His eyes go over to the empty science console with a sense of incompleteness. In fact, everyone on the bridge feels it. bitter truth they'll have to accept. Mr. Sulu, prepare to engage thrus-- the turbolift door opens. Wearing his Our hearts soar -- Permission to come aboard, Captain. ... Permission granted. As you have yet to select a first officer, respectfully, would like to submit my candidacy. Should you desire, can provide character references. Kirk nearly laughs. Spock's eyebrow goes up. Something passes between them... it carries acceptance, and trust... It would be my honor, Commander. Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu. Take us out. Aye, Captain. As the ship maneuvers out of dry dock, Spock takes his place next to Kirk. Gold and blue, side by side. And the ship crests the drydock portal, drifting into space... blessed one last time by the voice of our Vulcan hero: Space... the final frontier. These are the continuing voyages of the Starship Enterprise. Her ongoing mission... to explore strange new worlds... to seek out new life forms, and new civilizations... To boldly go, where no one has gone... before... The as the Enterprise warps off into a universe of infinite possibilities... ... oh my God... (to himself, boggled) lightning storm... then this... (to deck) Signal all departments: first contact protocols. Looks like we have someone new on the block. All Stop. All stations, procedures initiated..." Broadcasting universal greeting on all open frequencies. Sir, should we initiate an active scan? That could be seen as an act of provocation -- all readings passive-- Crew members are glued to their telemetry, working consoles: sensors in passive sweep... Power signature detected -- level's increasing. Suddenly, a -- Sir, have a reading -- they've locked weapons on us! -- Red alert! Arm weapons! -- as -- The Narada a -- -- then fracturing into a multi-hit projectile -- Officers brace for impact -- Torpedo locked on us at 320 degrees, mark two -- incoming -- Evasive pattern Delta-5! fast! Redirecting auxiliary power to forward shields!" Aft torpedo tubes are hot! direct hit several decks along the of the ship -- Captain Robau helps a fallen up from the floor -- then, on his chair com: Damage report! with: Moving with the Kelvin's Diagnostic's back online -- rerouting to auxiliary console. Power grid junctions and are out... Dispatch repair teams to deck 4. Our shields did nothing, Sir! Never seen anything like it! Weapons off-line! Main power at 38 percent! Then ask that you do yourself a favor... put away logic, and do what feels right. The world you've inherited lives in the shadow of incalculable devastation... but there's no reason you must face it alone. And from around his neck, he removes the that until now, we've only caught glimpses of. Places it on the table beside his younger self. The feeling in his eyes is profound... This was a gift to me. Representing... a dream. One we were unable to fulfill. (softly) The way you can now. And moves to the door. Stops. Offers the As my customary farewell would appear oddly self serving, will simply say... good luck. Their eyes hold. Spock turns, disappearing into the corridor. Young Spock stares at the empty doorway a beat, his mind a jumble of thoughts. Looks to the pendant... and realizes it's a After considering a beat, he hits an activation button and a materializes before him: As always, brash, wry, confident -- and Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you... (stops, grins) know know, it's illogical to celebrate something you had nothing to do with, but haven't had the chance to congratulate you on your appointment to the ambassadorship so thought I'd seize the occasion... Bravo, Spock -- they tell me your first mission may take you away for awhile, so I'll be the first to wish you luck... and to say... (beat, emotional) miss you, old friend. ... and we're on Young Spock, taking in the image of Kirk's future self, the message, but above all -- the clear, unquestionable friendship these two men had... As Spock Prime walks off down the corridor, he passes right by a man conferring with a nurse -- the man pauses, turns... it's Suddenly overcome by a feeling that the stranger who's just passed him is... oddly familiar. suppose I'd always imagined us... outgrowing Starfleet together. Watching life swing us into our Emeritus years... -- glass walls reveal at dock, floating around it, repairing. Standing at attention in rows, -- over four hundred of them wearing -- the faces, all proud: look around at the new cadets now and can't help thinking... has it really been so long? Wasn't it only yesterday we stepped onto the Enterprise as boys? That had to prove to the crew deserved command... and their respect? And we Composed, focused, proud. man. And to every fan's delight, finally wearing his The stands at a podium: This assembly calls Captain James Tiberius Kirk... Kirk breaks from formation, pivots, marches down the hangar -- past All Beaming. Notably absent, is Spock. Kirk ascends the stairs, snaps to attention: Your inspirational valor and supreme dedication to your comrades are in keeping with the highest traditions of service and reflect utmost credit to yourself, your crew, and the Federation. By Starfleet Order 28455, you are hereby directed to report to Commanding Officer, Enterprise, for duty as his relief. Kirk turns. Walks to... In a wheelchair now, wearing an Overnight, his hair's turned totally grey -- but despite his trauma, his pride's overwhelming. They each other: relieve you, Sir. ... am relieved. He opens a in his lap -- glorious in repose, a And as Fleet Admiral, for your... unique solution to the Kobayashi Maru, it's my honor to award you with a commendation for original thinking. Pike containing a smirk, pins the medal to Kirk's chest... (a touch choked) Congratulations, Captain. Thank you, Sir. Kirk turns to the crowd. Eyes shining. Bones leans in to Sulu, rolling his eyes: ... Same ship, different day. As Kirk rejoins his crew for hugs and congratulations, we go to the of the hangar... Watching. Moved beyond words. He turns and leaves them to it... as he goes... know what you'd say -- `It's their turn now, Jim...' And of course you're right... but it got me thinking: Our montage comes full circle as we on Kirk's transmission: Who's to say we can't go one more round? By the last tally, only twenty five percent of the galaxy's been chartered... I'd call that negligent. Criminal even -- an invitation. You once said being a starship captain was my first, best destiny... if that's true, then yours is to be by my side. If there's any true logic to the universe... we'll end up on that bridge again someday. Stops, grins. Because this is the part he needs to say most... Admit it, Spock. For people like us, the journey itself... is home. Young Spock's face. Lost in feelings that flood through him. Questions to be spoken or represented graphically and answers to be dispersed to Vulcan children at directors discretion. What is the arc length of a curve from x equals a to x equals b? The integral, from a to b, of the square root of one plus the squared derivative of y with respect to x, d x. Calculate the dimensionality of a fractal whose initiator divides into three equal parts, each of which is replaced by four parts. What is the dimensionality of a fractal whose initiator divides into r equal parts , each being replaced by equal parts? Dimensionality equals the logarithm of divided by the logarithm of r. cone is sliced by a plane that does not intersect the base, nor is the plane parallel to the base. What shape is formed by the intersection? An ellipse. What is the formula for the volume of a sphere? Four-thirds pi times the radius cubed. What is the electrical charge of an up-type quark? Positive two thirds. discount function with exponential discounting for all periods, and an additional scalar discount for the present, is called what? Quasi-hyperbolic. An excessively impatient person, who discounts future values solely because they are not in the present, is called what? hyperbolic or quasi-hyperbolic discounter. In an infinitely repeated classic prisoners' dilemma, how many subgame perfect equilibria exist? Infinitely many. How many equilibria exist in a classic Hawk-Dove strategic interaction game? Two in pure strategies and one in mixed strategies. (The mixed strategy equilibria is unstable.) What are the two key features of a pure public good? Non-excludability and non-rivalry in consumption. What is the only known intelligent life form to have achieved faster-than-light travel without political unification? Humans. Assuming, of course, you regard humans as intelligent. What are the six recognized exceptions to the Prime Directive under Federation law? What are the four key dimensions of Vulcan aesthetics? Leave unanswered What term describes an action that is morally praiseworthy but not morally obligatory? Supererogatory. When is an action said to be supererogatory? When it is morally praiseworthy but not morally obligatory. Miscellaneous dialogue to be dispersed by director to supporting crew or main cast at his/her discretion. Heard that guy passed second-year exams in his first term. Ruining the curve for everyone. I'd like to load her photon tubes. Can't believe failed the navigational comp. The Newton's not an antique, it's a classic. Give me the Newton over the Enterprise any day. Did you see the new assignment roster? flunked the sub-atomic particles quiz. They better give me a red shirt for this. Do we have time to get married? (on one knee) know this is sudden, but... will you marry me? I'm calling my Mom... Can't believe I'm on the Mayflower... Secure the transport deck. Security team to the docking bay. Report. Bring the prisoner to the bridge. Secure the prisoner and take him to the brig. Federation defenses are weak in this era. Prepare shuttles for evacuation. Communications -- monitor all Federation channels. Scramble signals on all Federation channels. Anterior hull breach, deck level seven. Security breach in the docking bay, tracking now... The Vulcans value logic but not honor. No remaining signal - the vessel is gone. Long live the Romulan Star Empire. We are being attacked. Stinking Klingons. Captain we have a new contact. Firing solution ready. Sir, tracking new contact. Sir, we have a hull breach in the aft section. This is a mining vessel. We don't have the manoeuvrability to follow. Where is planetary security? The planet is coming apart! Hope is beyond reason. Stay together and keep moving. Planetary evacuation is in progress. This is highly improbable. It seems we are under attack. await my fate with a clear consciences. An end is just a beginning. All com channels open. We have clearance from Starfleet. Proceeding as directed. Transporter deck is operational. Shields at one-hundred percent and stable. Engineering reports warp core is stable. Warp propulsion system is at maximum efficiency. Monitor all channels. Bring up schematics for the Defiant, Newton, Armstrong, and Mayflower. Set a course for Rigel 3 and transmit to the other ships. Warp drive is off line, we are on impulse only, repeat, impulse only. Sir, we've been detected -- Romulan vessel is turning about. Rerouting power to port shields. Hull breach on deck 38, atmospheric stabilization has been lost. Life support is fluctuating. Class four casualties here, class three in the next door. Dose him alpha waves and resume compressions. Cortical stimulation's failing -- This should numb the pain. Airways clear. Star Trek : Roberto Orci Alex Kurtzman : Action