Screenplay by Tom Schulman Story by Alvin Sargent and Laura Ziskin "Medical journals report only 31 cases in history of people swallowing their toothbrushes. The champion toothbrush swallower was a Soviet psychiatric patient who downed 16 in 1984. The all-time champion swallower of any object swallowed 2533 objects in 1927." We a man clearing his throat. He enters and a shiny glob of toothpaste is squeezed onto the bristles. thirties, anxious, begins brushing his teeth. Suddenly, in trying to brush a back molar, Bob looses control of the toothbrush and swallows half of it whole. Choking, gasping, he tries to pull the toothbrush out. and up from a woman walking her dog on the streets of Manhattan to a third floor apartment window. There is Bob struggling frantically with the toothbrush. Bob is losing the battle, and in three excruciating swallows, like a mouse going down the throat of a snake, the toothbrush disappears down his throat. Bob pounds his chest, swallowing as he does. Then, delicately, he belches. He takes a deep breath, relaxes somewhat, and opens the medicine cabinet. There sit ten packaged toothbrushes. Bob opens one. Pricey BMW's, etc. sport license plates which read: etc. Three pre-teens ride by on bikes and shove the trunks of the cars. Car alarms sound off like birds. We then out to sea to see: Four psychiatrists and three spouses are pleasure boating. Here all is quiet except the wind and the sound of the birds (or is it the car alarms?). Shrinks and their wives sit around an intense doctor in his forties. I've had the same nightmare three nights running. Come on, David, we're on a vacation. I'm leaving my office for summer vacation, when suddenly my patients rush up looking insane. Dr. Feinberg exits the building with his suitcase. To his horror an angry horde of men and women, looking like a sadistic lynch mob, swarm him and attack. "Don't leave us!" they scream. Then they beat me and bite me and kill me...! As Feinberg runs to get away he is dragged down then overrun by his angry patients. It's the worst nightmare I've had since residency. Night after night... it's terrifying! At least your nightmare is only a dream. What about what happened to Leo Marvin? Who's Leo Marvin? You never heard of the famous Dr. Marvin? There is a dock, an overgrown slab, and a chimney. That used to be his vacation house. There's nothing there. Grab a strong drink and some Dramamine. I'll tell you a story that will send you into Rorschach. Who's Leo Marvin? Well, really can't tell you about Leo Marvin unless first tell you about Bob. Who's Bob? The of segues to car alarms. We're on the streets of New York, and like a bird up and into a sweltering apartment. Bob Wiley sits on his bed in boxer shorts. On his night stand are cardboard plaques: one lists the warning signs of diabetes, another lists cancer's seven warning signals. Stacked by the bed are psychology books and a few bottles of prescription pills. In front of Bob is a vaporizer. Bob holds his cheeks and twists them in small circles in front of the steam. (a mantra-like chant) feel good. feel great. feel wonderful! feel good. feel great. feel wonderful! -- But who's Leo Marvin? know I've heard the name. Was he the guy who specialized in necrophiliacs? No! (sighs) If you must. The striking thing about MARVIN's office is order and neatness. As Marvin talks on the phone, he unconsciously adjusts the already meticulously placed gewgaws on his desk. Marvin is mid-forties, authoritative, stiff, perfectly manicured. Adorning the office are diplomas, personal mementos, primitive masks, Mondrian-like paintings, his framed medical school grades, a bust of Freud, and diplomas. On his desk is a book titled Baby Steps with Marvin's picture on it. Of course want to publicize the book, Hugo and it's a wonderful opportunity, but its my vacation. The Today Show went to Dr. Ruth's vacation house, why can't Morning come to Lake Winnipesaukee?... Would you work on it?... Thank you Hugo. appreciate it. Dr. Marvin, there's a Dr. Carswell Fensterwald calling. He says you went to school together. (wracking his memory) Fensterwald. Carswell Fensterwald. It sounds familiar but... They sure come out of the woodwork when you get famous, Clair. Put him through. Leo? Carswell? Carswell Fensterwald looks unstable. As he talks on his phone, he is boxing up his office. Prominent on his desk is a copy of Marvin's book. The conversation Long time no see, huh? You have a big book out. Things are clicking, huh? That's the way planned it. Listen, Leo, I'm closing my practice. Most of my patients are on the West Side but have one case I'd like to refer you. Carswell, thanks but -- know, you're incredibly busy. Swamped. I've raised my rate. might even cut my sessions to forty minutes... Leo, know you don't like flattery but if anybody know is going to win a Nobel Prize, it's you. You gotta be thinking about your next book so know you'll find this case particularly interesting. What sort of case is it, Carswell? Marvin paces. He adjusts a diploma down, then up, then down. Actually, Leo, don't know. Carswell, if this is a dysfunctional -- No no, nothing like that. He keeps his appointments. Pays on time. See him once. If he's not the most complex and -- persistent -- case you've ever seen, drop him. His name's Bob Wiley. He needs someone brilliant. Okay. I'll work him in for an interview. Say, Carswell, how come you're quitting the business? We're a dying breed, Leo. Good luck. Fensterwald hangs up. He lets out a silent jubilant howl of gleeful laughter. feel good. feel great. feel wonderful! Marvin slowly hangs up his speaker phone. Carswell Fensterwald...? Again he racks his brains. He presses his intercom. Claire, if get a call from a Bob Wiley, schedule him for a short interview after vacation. He's already called, Dr. Marvin. Twice. He's coming in this afternoon. That's one kind of persistence. Carswell Fensterwald...? Marvin gives up. He picks up a copy of his book. He compares his jacket photo with his reflection in the handle of his letter opener. The shrinks are still listening to Doctor 3. Leo Marvin. Now remember. An incredible asshole. Had that stupid best seller, what was the name of it? Watching grass grow was more exciting than Leo Marvin. All that changed. Why? That's what I'm trying to tell you lummoxes: Bob. Bob is sitting by the steam repeating his mantra. feel good. feel great. feel wonderful! feel good, feel great! feel -- Bob picks up the phone and frantically pushes buttons. Hello, Claire, Bob again. Are you sure Dr. Marvin doesn't have an earlier cancellation?... Sorry. See you at two, sharp. Bob hangs up, finds a blood pressure gauge and takes his blood pressure. That done, he stands, paces, then stops and sprinkles food into a gold fish bowl. Morning, Gil. the nibbles the food. Bob sits on his bed, takes a deep breath, then dials the phone. As he waits for an answer, he flips through his "organizer" which is crammed with notes and papers. Overton. This is Bob Wiley calling... (checks in his notebook) Mrs. Patricia Lions please. Bob waits a beat, still looking through the notebook. Lions. Mrs. Lions, I'm Bob Wiley. represent the Manhattan Dental Hygiene Association. can offer you a forty percent discount on our toothpicks plus a very attractive selection of toothpick holders if... Mr. Wiley -- Bob. Bob, this is an elementary school. Elementary school? (checks his notebook) thought you were Overton Cafeteria? No, we're a school and we don't need toothpicks. don't know. young tooth is a terrible thing to waste. should know. When was that age nobody gave a hoot about my teeth and now they're terrible! Have you checked out flavored floss? Flavored floss? All you have to do is dream pink gums, Patsy, and we can make them happen. Give me your address and I'll send you our flossing catalogue. As Bob begins to write on his notebook, he flashes a for victory at Gil. Bob is now dressed to go out. clock reads 1:45pm. Bob is pacing at the door. He stops, glances at the clock, faces the door, opens it, closes it. He paces, opens the door, takes some deep breaths, twists his cheeks, then like a man jumping into cold water, bolts out. Bob exits his apartment, uses a Kleenex to close the door, then heads down the stairs. Sweat pouring off his brow, Bob stands in sunglasses in the entrance-way to his apartment. bus squeals up to the curb, belches smoke, then moves on. garbage can is kicked over. Bob starts to take a step when suddenly he gets dizzy. He steps back and hyperventilates. Bob puts on a dust mask, steps bravely onto the sidewalk, and walks, eyes fixed forward. feel good, feel great, feel wonderful. (repeats) man passes Bob, eyes fixed forward. Son of a bitch, dirty bastard, I'll get you! (repeats) Bob walks through the city like a zombie, eyes fixed forward. Passers-by shuffle to and fro. Bob, still in sunglasses and dust mask, enters. He walks in a straight line to the building directory. He finds: "Dr. Leo Marvin, Psychiatric Corporation, suite 4616." Help you? This startles Bob but he recovers. I'm going to see Dr. Leo Marvin. Second elevator. 46th floor. Elevator. Thanks. Bob removes a Kleenex from a pack in his pocket, uses it to push the elevator button, then paces nervously. The elevator arrives and the door opens. The elevator is filling up with passengers. Bob doesn't move. We see a descending steel staircase and stairwell door marked "Floor 40". We hear footsteps -- rhythmic and determined -- getting closer and closer. feel good, feel great, feel wonderful. (repeats over and over) Clair sits behind her desk reading a book. Bob enters, red- faced and out of breath, taking his pulse. Hi... I'm... Bob... Dr. Marvin is at his desk. Claire shows in Bob. Dr. Marvin. Bob Wiley. Thank you for working me in. Claire exits. Bob looks around then notices a framed photo on Marvin's shelf. Using his Kleenex, Bob picks it up. He smiles. Your family? (Marvin nods) Wait, let me guess. I'm good at this. Harriet, Kenny, Gretchen, Rita. Wait wait, know I'm close. Susan, Steven, Andrea, Rita. Wait -- (emotionless) My wife, Fay. My son, Sigmund. My daughter, Anna. My sister, Lily. Lily... was close! What a wonderful family! Bob puts the photo back on the shelf. Marvin adjusts it. Thank you. Do call you Dr. Marvin or Leo? Whichever you prefer. Have a seat. Call me Bob. Bob stares at the chair. There is a box of Kleenexes on the arm. Bob reaches in his pocket, takes out a Kleenex, and uses it to move the box of Kleenexes to the table. He then sits. Marvin walks to Bob and holds out a trash can. Bob drops in the used Kleenex. Thank you. Marvin puts the trash can next to Bob's chair then sits. He stares at Bob. He's waiting. guess I'm on, huh? (pause) Well, the simplest way to put it is, have problems. worry er, about diseases. have trouble with toothbrushes. And er, have problems moving. Talk about moving. As long as I'm in my apartment, I'm okay. have a phone job -- selling dental supplies -- and that's fine. But when have to go out, get..., weird. Talk about weird. get dizzy spells. Nausea. Cold sweats. Hot sweats. Fever blisters. Difficulty swallowing. Difficulty breathing. Blurred vision. Involuntary trembling. Dead hands. Weak ankles. Twitching. Fainting spells. Numb lips. (pause) Do you think that's normal? That depends. Suddenly Bob removes an air sickness bag from his pocket. He opens it and pauses a long time as though he were about to vomit into it. He doesn't. He puts the air sickness bag away. Marvin leans in. Bob does too. You do go out, you know. do? You came here. You're right! What are you afraid of? Well. What if break my neck and become paraplegic? What if my heart stops beating, or can't find a bathroom and my bladder explodes? You ever heard of Tourette's Syndrome. You know, where you involuntarily shout profanity? That's exceptionally rare. have a neighbor who got it. Yells "oh shit!" in church. "Douche bag!" at customers at his job. Pretty funny, actually, unless you're the one with the disease. Then it's sad. (pause) Just kidding. (pause) Why are you doing this? Sometimes, if fake it, know don't have it. Like, when think my heart is gonna stop. fake it so know it's not happening. Bob fakes a heart seizure -- very convincingly -- and falls to the floor. After a moment, he sits back in the chair as if nothing had happened. If can't make it happen, know it's not happening. know it's all in my mind. Marvin stands and walks towards Bob. Get away from me with that knife! (laughs) See? Marvin uprights the trashcan and walks back to his seat. Are you married? Divorced, actually. Want to talk about it? The world is divided into two types of people: those who like Neil Diamond and those who don't. My ex-wife loves him. Um. Dr. Marvin, do you think you can help me? There is a pause. Marvin leans in. There's a saying, Bob, that the best psychiatrist in the world is right inside of you. can help you, provided you're willing to help yourself. Are you kidding, I'll do anything! Marvin stands and moves to the bookcase behind him. There's a ground breaking book that just came out, Bob. Not everything in it applies to you but when you see the title, think you'll see that it can help. There are twenty copies of Marvin's book on the shelf behind Marvin. Marvin holds one up. Bob sees the cover. We see the picture of Marvin on the back. Baby Steps. It means setting small, reasonable goals for yourself. One day at a time, one tiny step at a time -- do- able, accomplishable goals. Baby steps. When you leave this office, don't think about everything you have to do to get out of the building, just deal with getting out of the room. When you reach the hall, just deal with the hall. And so forth. Baby steps. Bob looks at Marvin then stands. Baby step... through the office. Bob takes small deliberate steps to the door. He opens it and steps into the reception area. Baby step... out the door. The door to the office closes. There is a long pause. Bob opens the door and pops back in. It works! Of course. All have to do is take one small step at a time and can do anything! Exactly. But don't expect everything all at once. Even a baby occasionally falls and hits his head. Bob walks around the room as though he were inhabiting each small space with his body. Baby step around the office. Baby step around the office! (to Marvin's family photo) Fay, Sigmund, Anna, Lily: Hi fam! He's a genius! Marvin hands Bob the book. This will give you plenty to digest while I'm on vacation. Vacation? Certainly my secretary told you. As of this afternoon, I'm on vacation with my family until Labor Day. That's a whole month! What if need you? What if need to talk? Dr. Harmon, my associate will be happy to talk. He hands Bob Harmon's card. We have years ahead of us, Bob. month will seem like a baby second. Marvin shows Bob the door. Bob, doing his baby steps, looks lost and confused. Can call you in the Hamptons if need you? Dr. Harmon is quite skilled. Bob shuffles to the door. hear Maine is great this time of year. Marvin turns over his book and shows Bob his picture. I'll be with you the whole month. Try your baby steps. Let's see... Baby step through the office. Baby step out the door. That's perfect. Keep going... Baby steps to the hall. Baby... Marvin closes the door and starts back to his desk. Momentarily, Bob sticks his head back in. It's the Catskills, isn't it? Bob... Sorry. Baby steps. Baby steps... Bob exits, closing the door. Marvin starts to pick up Bob's trash can when Bob sticks his head in again. You flying or driving? Bob. (firmly re-assuring) I'll be back. Bob looks at Marvin then starts out. Baby steps, he'll be back. Baby steps, he'll be back... Bob closes the door behind him. From his desk Marvin takes a plastic trash bag and dumps the contents of Bob's trash can into it. He picks up a small tape recorder and presses "record". July 31, Bob Wiley, introductory interview. Multi-phobic personality characterized by an extreme need for family connections. Bill $150 for the session and $29.95 for the book. He clicks the tape recorder off. There is a knock on the door. Bob... Claire puts her head in. It's your publicist. He says will come to Winnipesaukee. Marvin strides triumphantly to the phone and lifts it up. knew they'd come to me! Hugo, not to change the subject but has a psychiatrist ever won the Nobel Prize? Bob paces in front of the elevators, reading the book. Baby step to the elevator. Baby step to the elevator. The elevator, full of passengers, opens. Bob, steps in. Baby step to the elevator. Baby step to the elevator. The elevator doors close and it starts down. Bob screams. Marvin and family (who we recognize from the pictures in Marvin's office) exit a cab with their luggage and head into the terminal. Hurry hurry hurry. Hurry hurry hurry. Hurry hurry hurry. They pass a with a hand out. Marvin's wife stops and roots in her purse. Honey there isn't time. Fay gives the man some money then enters the terminal. You're only encouraging them, Fay. The Marvin family hurries through the terminal. Hurry hurry hurry. Hurry hurry hurry... Marvin's 16 year old daughter and 12 year old son rush with them. Daddy, would you cut it out? The family finds their gate and gets in line to board. There are ten people ahead of them and the plane isn't boarding yet. All haste stops as they drop their luggage to the floor. See? Honey, told you there was no rush. nice looking gets in line behind them and checks out Anna. She sees him and flips her hair. Siggy, dressed in all black, plays a video game on his watch. It beeps and blurps. lovingly plucks a piece of lint off Marvin's jacket. Siggy looks up and plucks off another piece of lint. Marvin takes out an electronic organizer. He pushes buttons and it beeps. Okay, how does this sound? Tomorrow: we'll go shopping and clean up the house. Ooo, sounds great. Wednesday we'll re-arrange the furniture and spruce up the lawn. More, gotta have more. Thursday... Marvin clears his throat and smiles. (sing song) The interview with Maria Shriver. (swelling with pride) I'm having some art brought up from the city. The cottage should look spectacular. Fay kisses Marvin on the cheek. I'm sure whatever you do will look wonderful, honey. Marvin beams then goes back to his organizer. After the interview we'll take a celebration sail around lake, then Friday -- my birthday -- we'll have wonderful meal at Digby's. Fay straightens Siggy's shirt tail. Momentarily, Siggy's watch lets out a staccato series of beeps. Siggy, are you going to spend all summer driving us crazy with that? It's not driving me crazy. Me either. Siggy continues his game. Fay touches Marvin on the hand to say, let it pass. Anna continues to flirt with the boy in line. Marvin pushes a couple of buttons on his organizer and it lets out three rapid beeps. Siggy smiles triumphantly at Marvin. You gonna do that all summer? Marvin ignores this and puts the organizer away. Yeah, dad, huh? Anna you're masking hostility. Marvin reaches in his briefcase and removes two One has the silk screened face of Anna, the other of Leo. Anna sees this and is incredibly embarrassed. (intense) Daddy, put those away! The line moves. Anna hurries into the ramp way. Anna. Examine your behavior. Marvin and the family disappear into the ramp way. Dr. Leo Marvin, pick up the white courtesy phone. Dr. Leo Marvin, please answer the white courtesy phone. long list of airline phone numbers with all but the last one crossed out. standing at a pay phone, receiver to his ear. He has Kleenexes protecting his hand, his ear and his mouth. Outside the window is a hot dog stand. The vendor is serving up juicy hot dogs and Bob watches longingly. I'm sorry, Bob. No one's answering the page. Thanks for trying. Bob hangs up and crumples the list. Still looking at the hot dogs, Bob shuffles out of the phone booth. He tosses his crumpled list at a trash can and misses. Even though there is litter on the street all around the trash can, Bob (using a Kleenex) picks up his list and puts it in the trash. He walks to the hot dog stand and watches. He wants a hot dog. Can help you, bub? Bob. Would you like a hot dog, Bob? sure would... The vendor buns a hot dog. Mustard? sure would. Sauerkraut. I'd love it. The vendor holds out the dog. But can't. really want to but can't. It's bird intestine and beef brain. Bob looks at the dog with a mixture of desire and revulsion. He pulls out an air sickness bag, holds it ready, then puts it back. The vendor retracts the dog. Hit the road, bub. Bob. Bob moves on. Bob, out of breath, knocks on the door. a late middle aged woman draped in diaphanous scarves, opens the door. She carries a palette knife and palette of paint. Hi, mom. Bob, you didn't walk up again? found this great psychiatrist who abandoned me. Helene turns and walks away. Bob follows her in. The next scene is played with Helene walking away and Bob following. They move through her apartment, dotted with finished and half-finished paintings on big canvases. Did you come here for money? Mom, that's a terrible thing to ask. How do you like my latest? She stops in front of a covered with knives, spoons, forks, paint, and twenty dollar bills. Bob touches one of the twenties. It comes off in his hand. It's lovely mom. Helene takes the twenty and puts it back. Bobby, please! Mom, I'm sorry! All wanted to do was talk. I'll go. She reaches out and embraces him. Oh my poor baby. How did you get so screwed up? Oh, mom. You're the only thing care about. Always will be. Oh mom. They stand there hugging for a moment. I'm here for you, Bob. Anytime. love you, mom. She looks at him and lovingly straightens his hair. Go home, sweetie. need to work. Bob stands on the corner looking like a lost soul. He watches as the world passes by. The light changes. Looking both ways constantly, Bob crosses. Baby step across the street. Baby step across the street... "perfect little family" walks past him. five year old girl and a three year old boy skip by, hand in hand. They wave at Bob. He waves back, sadly, then continues. (affectless) feel good, feel great, feel wonderful. "Crackling Rose" by Neil Diamond plays on the stereo. a perky woman, pregnant, about Bob's age, answers the door. Bob stands in the hallway. She's a little surprised. Hi. Whoa!... You're really getting big. Bob gently puts his hand on Becky's belly. What a bruiser. Hi little Bobby! (gently) Bob, he's not little Bobby. Feel the heartbeat? Bob puts his ear to Becky's belly and listens. Suddenly, he hugs Becky's tummy. Oh, Becky, let's get married again. (pulling away) Bob. You know I'm married to some one else now. (holding on) But want a baby. family! want to burp him and change him and... love him! (pause -- lets go) Why couldn't it have been with me? Bob, honey, we've been over this. You as a father? Think about it. Bob sinks. Becky looks at him sympathetically. There is still a warm spot in her heart for him. You know actually have considered naming him "Bob". Really?! Yeah. But it's still going to be "Neil". (recognizing Neil Diamond on the stereo) Right. Bob sits alone watching Ozzie and Harriet. Ozzie is talking to Ricky, David, and Harriet. We're a family. We'll always be a family. don't care what they say about you at school, we've got each other and don't you ever forget it. The family hugs. The audience applauds. Bob picks up the phone and dials. with a one room, two operator answering service. Mid-Manhattan Exchange. This is Bob Wiley. I'm a patient of Dr. Marvin's. need to talk to him. Urgently. I'm sorry Mr. Wiley -- Bob. -- Bob, but Dr. Marvin is out of town and Dr. Harmon is taking his calls. don't want Harmon, need Marvin! Bob paces then assumes a false calm. Look, there seems to be some confusion. You see, Dr. Marvin, uh, Leo, wanted me to call him but lost his number. Bob. can't give out that number. But you could call him and ask him to call me. It's awfully late. Bob is silent. Bessie is uncertain. Stay on the line, Bob. What's your number in case we get disconnected? We recognize this as the same lake the doctors were sailing in the opening scene: gorgeous greenery, the shore lined with quaint but expensive summer homes. Where the doctors in the boat saw an empty slab, stands the Marvin summer house, a clapboard structure complete with a private dock, old wooden motorized rowboat, and diving board. Marvin is relaxing in a chair. Fay is in the background putting out flowers. Marvin takes a deep breath, sighs peacefully then picks up a book: Freud's Understanding Dreams and opens it. The phone rings. Marvin frowns, then answers. Yes? Dr. Marvin, this is Bessie at your exchange. I'm sorry to disturb you but have a Bob Wiley on the line who says you'll want to talk to him. You know better than this, Bessie. Dr. Harmon is covering for me. told him that, Doctor, but he insists on talking to you. He says it's an emergency. Marvin frowns then takes a deep breath. Put him through. Go ahead, Bob. Bob's frantic pacing contrasts with Marvin's calm. Bob, thought made it clear to you that I'm on vacation. know, but I'm a mess. Worse than usual. Bob, if this is an emergency, go to the emergency room. If not, call Dr. Harmon and I'm sure he can help you. I'd feel better if just knew where you were. It's Martha's Vineyard right? Bob. Couldn't we just talk? In my office, after Labor Day. Fire Island? Good night, Bob. Marvin hangs up. Bob hangs up too. He stands and thinks then dials again. Hi, this is Bob. Leo and got cut off. I'm sorry, Bob, but Dr. Marvin just called and instructed me not to put you through. What? Bob stands thinking. mid-twenties overly made up, is on the phone. again with Mid-Manhattan exchange. Hello, this is Lily Marvin, Dr. Leo Marvin's sister. have to talk to my brother right away. (skeptical) I'm not allowed to give out that number. Don't you have it? standing beside the prostitute, wearing his face mask, waiting anxiously. Bob whispers in the prostitute's ear. She nods. He went on vacation and forgot to give it to me. Look, honey, it's urgent. I'm at: 790-8864. She reads the number off the pay phone. Bessie reacts to the fact that it's a different number from Bob's. She shakes her head and sighs. Stay on the line, Miss Marvin. The prostitute hands the phone to Bob. He sprays the phone with disinfectant then hands her some money. Thanks. You were fantastic. The prostitute shakes her head and walks away. The moonlit lake is in the far background. In the near background the Marvin family sits eating dinner. Marvin holding the telephone, looking concerned, walks off by himself. Lily? What's wrong? Bob, standing at his pay phone. He cringes. Dr. Marvin, please don't be angry. It's Bob. know shouldn't call this way but -- Bob, listen to me. The doctor-patient relationship is based on trust. When you call me against my wishes or pretend to be my sister, can't trust you any more. know but-- Call Dr. Harmon, or go to the emergency room, but don't call me here again. Marvin hangs up. Bob stands in the phone booth, banging his hand on his head. Oh that wasn't smart! Oh that wasn't smart... He walks out of the booth shaking his head. He exits screen left. Momentarily he crosses back through screen, muttering to himself. Bessie sits at her switchboard, reading a regency romance. The operator, is doing her nails. There is a knock on the door. The operators look at each other, go to the door, but don't open it. Who is it? Detective Roberts. Homicide. What do you want? have some questions about a Bob Wiley. (to Gwen) That was that sicko who kept calling Dr. Marvin. (loud) What about him? She opens the door. Detective Roberts is Bob. He's dead. Oh my god. What happened? Suicide. We think. Forty stories. Free fall. Splat. The operators gasp. Now our records show that Bob made several calls to this number just before he died. Did either of you know Bob personally? Bob called here trying to reach his psychiatrist. That's interesting. What happened? put him through once. After that, Dr. Marvin didn't want to talk to him again. Uh Wait a minute. Dr. Marvin couldn't have had anything to do with Bob's death. Oh? Why not? Dr. Marvin's on vacation. Ah. Out of state. Lake Winnipesaukee. Michigan? New Hampshire. Right. We're not supposed to give out the number but can call him and... That's okay. I'm sure we can find him if we need him. Bob writes down the information as he walks to the door. God, feel terrible. What if was the last person he talked to before he died? frankly wouldn't let it bother me. This guy had "sky diver" written all over him if you know what mean. Bob closes the door behind him. Bob almost throws up then puts the air sickness bag away again. He takes a deep breath, smiles to himself, then exits. Marvin and Fay are asleep in bed. The phone rings. Fay turns on the light. That'd better not be who think it is. Marvin answers the phone. Fay listens. Hello... What?... That's okay. Thanks for calling, Bessie. Marvin hangs up. He sits, stunned. That was my service. That patient -- the one who called earlier -- committed suicide. Oh Leo, how horrible. Fay rubs Marvin's neck. There is a long pause. Oh well. Let's not let it ruin our vacation. Marvin turns out the light and lies down. Bob wears bermuda shorts and baseball cap. In one hand, like a security blanket, he clutches a paper bag spilling over with clothes, bottles of pills, and Baby Steps. In the other hand he clutches a baggie holding Gil. Eyes fixed ahead, Bob stares at: looming large like a growling grumbling snorting monster. This is the last bus to Winnipesaukee, Bob. How many tunnels does it pass through again? How many bridges? If you keep your eyes closed, you won't see any of them. You ready? Baby steps, board the bus. Baby steps, board the bus. Bob looks at the bus again. He tips his bottle of pills and swallows. He takes a small baby step towards the bus. You think you could do it today, Bob. We have a baby schedule to keep. Baby step, board today. Baby step, board today. Bob inches into the bus. bus driver sits ready to go. Bob walks like a cripple down the aisle to an empty seat. Baby step, down the aisle. Baby step, down the aisle. The passengers, a scurvy bunch, wait impatiently. Bob finally takes a seat next to an old man and smiles nervously. Hi. I'm Bob. The old man scowls and looks forward. The bus driver closes the door and the bus moves forward with a jolt. Ah!! (turns to the old man) Would you knock me out, please?! Hit me in the face, whatever you have to do, just knock me out! The old man moves away. Bob downs more pills. The bus speeds through. We a long, loud Marvin lies down in the hammock and picks up his book. Fay enter. Honey, let's go to the store. The Greyhound bus stops. Bob gets out and runs into a field. He apparently vomits, then runs back to the bus. The Marvin family strolls through this old fashioned General Store, loading food and supplies into a shopping cart. They're all in shorts and looking resorty except for Siggy who is in his usual all-black garb. Through the windows, outside, we can see the quaint little town of Winnipesaukee. Hugo said to expect eleven. Are you sure we have enough? We could feed the entire network, honey. Relax. Anna joins them and tosses in some cookies. (to Anna) By the way, did you call Ted Fein? Why? He's a salami with eyes. thought he was cute. How would you know a boy is cute? Are you coming out of the closet? Anna. Be nice. (she fixes Anna's collar) (calmly) She's just testing us, Fay. But don't get psycho-sexual with me young lady. Me? When you want me to call some guy cause his father's your publicist? Yeah, dad. Don't be a psychosexual pimp. Siggy, don't talk that way to your father. They're both testing us, Fay. Don't buy into it. Yeah, mom. It's not meant for you, it's meant for dad. (at his father) Testing. 1, 2, 3. Testing. pulls to the bus stop. Passengers hurry off, anxiously glancing behind them. Finally Bob, covered in sweat, exits. Holding his bag and fish, squinting to adjust to the sun, he stands in a daze as the bus pulls away. After a long pause, Bob calls out. Dr. Marvin! Dr. Leo Marvin! Bob waits. Passers-by turn and stare. There is no Leo Marvin in sight. Dr. Marvin! Dr. Leo Marvin! The Marvin family exits carrying groceries. They stop at the family station wagon and begin loading up. Dr. Leo Marvin. Dr. Leo Marvin. Leo, is somebody calling you? didn't hear anything. Leo Marvin. Dr. Leo Marvin! Everyone looks around. Over there. Marvin turns and sees Bob. Oh my god... don't believe it. Bob looks in all directions. Suddenly he sees Marvin. Dr. Marvin. It's you!! Bob walks toward the Marvins. stands dumfounded. He watches Bob walking towards them. He tries to stay calm. Everybody get in the car. Do you know that man, Leo? Dr. Marvin! It's me, Bob! (intense) Get in the car. Fay is surprised to see Leo so forceful. She hustles the kids into the station wagon. Bob hurries up, out of breath. In one hand he holds his bag. In the other he holds Gil in a baggie. Marvin closes the station wagon door and stands outside. Hi! This is Gil. It must be fate that found you so quickly! Bob stops and stands, a little out of breath. Is this a bad time? What are you doing here? thought you were..., dead. Oh no, they told you? fibbed a little but... Don't be mad. (spotting the family in the car) Oh... sweet beatific smile appears on Bob's face. He sighs. The fam. Marvin leads Bob away from the car, across the street. Marvin stops and faces Bob. think you know, Bob, that your behavior is entirely inappropriate. We talked about trust. We talked about my needs. want you to get on a bus and go back to New York. You're angry. don't get angry. You're upset. don't get upset. Then can't we just talk? don't see patients on vacation, Bob. Ever. How many ways can make that clear? But you can't just send me away! I've read your book, I've been doing what you told me, but I've completely relapsed! little time would mean so much. Please. Bob, I'm driving away now and don't want you to bother me again. You came for my advice, correct? Absolutely. Then take my advice and go back to New York. But can't go anywhere! I'm all locked up! You got yourself here. Barely! Getting back will therapeutic. Bob starts begging. Please just talk to me. Just a little talk. You're testing my patience, Bob. teeny tiny talk. An itty bitty talk... Bob is kneeling in front of Marvin. Pretty please... Pretty please with sugar... The family exchanges quizzical looks. Marvin looks around, incredibly embarrassed. He tugs at the kneeling Bob. (gritted teeth) Get up. Come on, get up. (standing) Say you will. Please, say you will. Marvin looks at his watch. Bob, it's two o'clock. Go to the bus station, buy a ticket home, then wait in that restaurant. He points to coffee shop. You'll meet me?! I'll call you. (looks at his watch) In two hours. Oh my god, you're the greatest! Bob moves to hug Marvin and Marvin reluctantly lets him. But you must buy your ticket and give your word that you'll go home. This is all about trust again, Bob. We must have trust. trust. absolutely trust. I'll go buy my ticket. Right now! I'll call you at four. You couldn't possibly make it three thirty, could you? Bob... Four it is. Four o'clock exactly. Thank you, Dr. Bob starts across the parking lot as Marvin gets in the car and closes the door. As the car pulls out of the parking lot, Marvin's family turns to look at Bob. Bob smiles and waves at the family. Leo, you look disturbed. I'm fine. Who was that poor man? Nobody. Anna is looking out the back window at Bob. She waves. He's cute. Marvin hits the accelerator, leaving rubber. An tend to the counters and glasses. Bob paces by the phone, reading Baby Steps to himself. The clock on the wall reads three o'clock. Baby step to four o'clock. Baby step to four o'clock. Bob covers his eyes then looks at the clock. No luck. Frustrated, Bob paces again. feel good, feel great, feel four o'clock! Again he looks at the clock: three-o-one. The elderly couple watch. They speak with thick European accents. Sonny, your fishy's losing air. Huh? Your guppy. Bob looks at Gil. The baggie is dripping. Oh. Thanks. Bob looks for something to do about the dripping baggie. Mr. Guttman brings a glass and dumps Gil in. Thank you. Is there something we can help you with? Can you make it four o'clock? Dr. Marvin's supposed to call me then but I'm going crazy. Not Dr. Leo Marvin? Do you know him? He bought our dream house. We worked a lifetime, saved up for a down payment, then he swooped down with his fancy schmancy lawyers and grabbed it out from under us. Stay as far away from him as possible. Like the plague. No problem. I'm his patient but he doesn't want me near him. We'll show you where he lives. Marvin and Siggy march to the end of the Marvin dock. There is a diving board. Siggy stands in a black terry robe and flip flops. Take off your robe. Everything you wear is black. wish you'd get off this death fixation. Siggy reluctantly takes off his black robe. Under it he wears a black t-shirt and black bathing suit. How do you know it's a death fixation? Maybe I'm in mourning for my lost childhood. What do you mean by that? What do you mean by asking? Come on, get on the board and let's see your approach. (striking a pose) My approach is to be suave and debonair and sophisticated. Come on, Siggy. 1, 2, 3 spring. Like we learned last time. 1, 2, 3, spring. Siggy reluctantly mounts the board. He stands, feet together, then takes a step with his right foot. 1, 2, 3 spring. 1, 2, 3 summer. 1, 2, 3 fall. Time to go dad. Cut it out, Siggy. Left foot... This is no fun. Siggy sighs then starts again. He awkwardly takes two steps then stops at the end of the board, staring into the water, afraid to dive. Why didn't you dive? With all the horror that's going on in the world, what difference does it make? The decor is New England cottage-y with a strong dose of Leo Marvin: incredibly ordered. On a pedestal is a bust of Sigmund Freud. On the mantle sit the family puppets: -- Anna, Siggy, Fay, and Leo. Anna is at the family stereo, selecting a Fay is on the chordless phone at the kitchen window, giving milk to some stray cats. Of course I'm excited Ellie. The last person they interviewed on vacation was Dr Ruth. Siggy enters and walks upstairs. Marvin enters and heads to the living room chair. Fay hangs up. He didn't dive. No. He's a little afraid of it, dear. Have patience. It's not like I'm making him jump out of an airplane. When was growing up, thought diving was fun. thought you were born grown up. Marvin stares at Anna. She puts on raucous heavy metal. You're masking hostility, Anna Marvin. Turn that down. It's full of Freudian symbols, dad. It's educational. Marvin turns down the volume, sits in his big easy chair, then takes a deep breath. He picks up Freud's Understanding Dreams. Anna puts on headphones and dances around wildly. Marvin tries to read. Suddenly a face appears in the window. It is Bob. He sees Marvin and taps on the window. Marvin looks up and sees Bob. What the...? (he bolts to the front door) What are you doing here? Bob stands holding Gil (in the glass) and his bag. I'm sorry. Don't be mad. The Guttmans brought me. Bob turns and waves at the Guttmans who are walking into an that occupies next lot. Thank you Mr. and Mrs. Your welcome, Bobby, Hello, Dr. Marvin! The Guttmans wave. Marvin waves back. Burn in hell, Dr. Marvin! Marvin's hand falls. The Guttmans enter their trailer. Marvin turns to Bob. We agreed that would call you. Your coming here is unbelievably inappropriate. Anna comes to the door. Hi. I'm Anna. saw your picture. I'm Bob. Fay comes to the door. Hi. I'm Bob. I'm Fay. Oh, Mrs. You're even prettier than your picture. Why thank you. (through his teeth) Bob, think you and have some things to talk about. You do? You finally think so too?! (to Fay) Would you excuse us, dear? Bob, may take your fish? Bob hands Gil to Fay and she walks into the kitchen. Anna just stands there. Anna. Anna rolls her eyes and follows her mother. Nice to meet you, Bob. You too. Marvin leads Bob away. Bob sees the puppets on the mantle. Bob and Marvin enter the downstairs study. Marvin indicates for Bob to take a seat. Great place. No wonder the Guttmans wanted it. really feel bad about barging in like this. Forget it. understand. You do? Of course do. Your problems don't go away just because go on vacation. They've been with you a long time after all. Ever since can remember. On the other hand, you're making strides. You got here. baby stepped. owe it to you. Bob smiles. Marvin stares at Bob for a long time then: Bob, take a look around you. What does everything you see have in common? Er... don't know... It's all owned by you, that's obvious. Humm... Everything's from a garage sale! There is a long pause. Marvin stares at Bob. Vacation, Bob. Everything you see is part of a vacation. Every year, for one month, bring my family to this house on vacation. Nice, isn't it? It's wonderful. The lake. The trees. The little town. Do you know what the point of a vacation is? Do you understand the meaning of the word? Sure. You forget about your troubles. You give up your worries. You drink from the wellspring of relaxation that enriches your soul. (pause) Now can't, at this time, give you the kind of therapeutic attention that you need to solve all your problems. Know why? Er, because you're on vacation? Excellent. But what can do -- and only can do this because you trust me don't you Bob? Why else would be here? Exactly. What can do is this. Marvin goes to a drawer and pulls out a prescription pad. He writes. Get on your bus and go back to New York. Every time a problem comes up, follow this prescription. (holds up his bag) don't need pills. have plenty of pills. Marvin tears off a prescription sheet and hands it to bob. It's not pills. Read it. (taking it) It says: vacation from my problems." I'm giving you permission to take a vacation, Bob. Not a vacation from your work. Not a vacation from your daily life. But a vacation from... My problems. Every time you feel a problem coming on, take that out and follow it to the letter. Doctors orders. Doctors orders. Marvin stands. I'm glad you came. I'll see you in my office next month. That's it? You came here for relief, Bob. Read your prescription. Bob stands a moment, looking at his prescription. This is... This is For the first time since Menningers feel free! knew coming up here was the right thing to do! It feels right because you're here and because you're leaving. Bob comes over and hugs Marvin. You've given me a great gift, doctor. The gift of life. You're a great man. Marvin opens the door for Bob. If you have any questions, call Dr. Harmon. Have a great vacation! You too. vacation from my problems. You bet will! Bob exits. Marvin closes the door and looks up at the ceiling. He takes a deep breath then turns back into the room. There is a knock at the door. Yes? It's Bob. forgot Gil. Marvin opens the door. My fish. Oh. Right. Bob strides into the kitchen and takes his fish. Sigmund, now in his clothes, enters from upstairs. You must be Sigmund. Siggy, this is Bob. He's just leaving. Hi. Hi. This is Gil. My fish. Cool. Did you get him out of the lake? No. He's a city fish. Cool. Your father is the most incredible psychiatrist in the world! You better appreciate him. He strides to the door then turns wistfully. Have a great vacation, fam. You too, Bob. Nice to meet you. Bob walks down the country lane. Crickets chirp. Vacation from my problems. Take a vacation from my problems. baby stepping, lazy stepping vacation from my problems. Bob falls into a rhythm, almost a little jig as he walks. Roosters crow in the new day. Marvin, Fay and Siggy stand frozen, like artist's models, staring at something. Is this suddenly a Godard movie? Are we now in a Becket play? Finally: It's too close to the wall. Who cares? Marvin moves to the couch and pulls it out from the wall about three inches. care, and you should too. Our house is going on national television tomorrow. You want your friends to think you live in a dump? My friends would respect me for it. You know, there's nothing wrong with neatness. People joke but it's actually a sign of a creative intelligence. Right, Fay? In isolated cases, sure. What is that supposed to mean? The room looks wonderful, dear. Fay pecks him on the cheek and walks into the kitchen. Siggy follows. Ditto Anna who starts cooking pancakes. Seriously, what do you mean by that? He gets no answer from the rest of the family who look at each other and smile. You're incredibly creative, daddy. Marvin goes back to making minuscule adjustments: adjusting diplomas, etc. At the front door is a knock. I'll get it. It's probably the van with my art. Checking out his "set" as he goes, Marvin opens the door. It's Bob. Good morning! I'll bet you're surprised to see me! When walked out of here last night said to myself, "Dr. Marvin's absolutely right. Take a vacation from your problems. Blow em off. Just say 'no'." So did! But... You're back. No I'm not. You're not?! Of course not. I'm taking a vacation. This isn't an appointment, I'm dropping by. told the Guttmans what you said and they found me a cottage nearby. No... Yeah, the town is packed but guess if you know the right people... Anyway, know we can't work but let's get the friendship thing going. Marvin is absolutely flabbergasted. I'm a little anxious about being here by myself but don't want to barge in. I'll call. Give my best to the fam and see ya around, okay? Bob walks away. Marvin closes the door. He stands there for a long time. Who was that, Leo? Nobody. Again? There is a knock on the door. Marvin opens it. almost forgot, here's your newspaper. See ya. Marvin takes the newspaper and closes the door. Wasn't that Bob? There is another knock on the door. It's Bob. You guys up for going out to breakfast? No! Eating in. admire that. Marvin slams the door in Bob's face. That was Bob! thought you said he left town? did. said exactly that. Anna moves to the front door, after Bob. Marvin grabs her arm and leads her to the kitchen. And don't want you letting him in this house. Daddy, you're hurting me! Anna wrenches her arm away. What's your problem? don't have a problem. Fay walks in. Honey, who is that man? Nobody, Fay. Nothing to get excited about. work related problem just went away. (smiles nonchalantly) It's fine. He strolls off into the kitchen. Anna rubs her arm. I've never seen him like this. (low) If you want to know, think your father is nervous about going on national television tomorrow. Freud himself would be anxious so let's be supportive, okay? He should go punch some pillows. Or get shock treatment. Remember that he's under pressure. Flap jacks! Bob walks down the empty country lane. Crickets chirp. Vacation from my problems. Take a vacation from my problems. There's nothing to fear, there's nobody here. Nothing to fear (he suddenly panics) He starts running and screaming. from a van are bringing in the art from Marvin's office. Marvin is using a weed trimmer to spruce up the shrubs to within an inch or their lives. Anna, in a bathing suit, sunglasses, and skimpy cover-up exits the house, gives her father a good-bye peck on the cheek then gets in the family station wagon. Where are you off to? Sailing. With Teddy Fein? No. George Stark. The boy from the plane. It's a quarter mile to the marina. Why do you need the car? I'm picking everybody up. She starts the car and backs out. Stay out of the sun! Remember what's happening to the ozone layer. Bob is running in a panic. Anna drives by and sees him. Bob! Anna hits the brakes and slows next to Bob. He breaks to a slow trot. Hi! Where you going? Just to... town. (pause) Buy some..., Kleenex. Want a ride? don't think your dad would like you picking me up. He wouldn't like a lot of things. Hop in. Bob hesitates then gets in. Anna drives. Bob puts on his seat belt. He seemed pretty upset this morning. He's nervous about the interview. Interview? Maria Shriver's coming tomorrow to talk about his book. Wow... so that's the problem! And thought he was upset about me! Well he's always uptight, even when it doesn't show. He is? Sure. Imagine growing up with a dad who sees every stage of growing up as a Freudian passage. Did you ever have crayons? Sure. Fat or skinny? Er, skinny, think. (warning tone) Uh oh. What do you mean? Dad saw crayons as phallic symbols. When asked for skinny crayons, it was a personal assault on his manhood. What'd he do, buy a Porsche? Anna laughs. wish! He just kept psychoanalyzing everything. My dolls were alter egos. Boys who wanted to kiss me were Oedipally fixated adolescents looking to displace their mothers on their aboriginal family totems. Sounds like my friends to a tee. (a beat) You seem to be doing okay now. Hardly. analyze everything to death. Every time a guy smiles at me, ask myself is he really smiling or is he just orally fixated? When smile back, wonder, am really attracted or just smiling out of some residual Cro-Magnon instinct? If ever actually have sex, I'm not sure I'll know the difference between an orgasm and an anxiety attack! have the same problem. The kinds of urges other girls act on impulsively, analyze until either the urge goes away or -- Or what? The boy goes away. Long pause. Well. It sounds like your dad never learned to leave his work at the office. Lot of good it does me! You'll make some man very happy someday. This hangs in the air. Anna looks at Bob. What are you doing today? Buying Kleenex. Wanna come sailing? Well, er... That's okay. You don't have to. Bob looks at Anna. He sees her attraction to him and it makes him nervous but he doesn't want to reject her. He looks down shyly. Actually, it's not that don't want to go. It's just that I've never been on a boat and I'm not sure can handle it. There's nothing to it. George Stark's doing the sailing. Just thinking about gives me hives. Standing next to the mast, his hair blowing in the wind. You're right, this is great! never actually thought could do this. never thought this could be me! That Bob, wearing life preservers on his body and legs, is wrapped onto the mast from chest to toe with ropes. Anna, George Stark (from the airport) and a few other kids sit around enjoying the sail. Marvin stands at the end of the diving board, holding Siggy by his ankles out over the water. On the shore next door, the Guttmans sit in lounge chairs, fishing. This is child abuse! If you drop me, I'll prosecute! am not going to let go until you're ready, okay? Trust me and put your hands out like showed you. I'm not ready! Do you hear? I'm not ready!! George's sailboat heels by. From it wave Anna and some of her friends -- and Bob. (shouting and waving) Hey Doctor look at me! I'm sailing! Stunned, Marvin drops Siggy into the water. Siggy does a belly flop then comes up for air, furious. Murderer! Child molester... Siggy, it was an accident! Hitler! Marvin walks along the shore towards the pier in time to see Anna and a wobbly Bob disembark George's sailboat. Anna! Anna sees her father. She says good-bye to George and her friends then walks towards her father. Bob starts towards Marvin too. Did you see me out there?! I'm getting better all the time. want to see Anna alone. Bob stops. Marvin waits while Anna walks to him. thought told you to stay away from Bob Wiley. No. You just said couldn't let him in the house. Marvin starts walking away from the sailboating party towards the town green. He puts his arm around Anna so that she has to walk with him. Daddy, where are we going? Home. What about the car? left it at the pier. Leave it. It's been a while since I've had a walk with my daughter. Anna looks back at her friends and Bob. She shrugs then turns back to her father. From his pockets Marvin removes the Leo and Anna puppets and hands her "Anna". Daddy, not here! Anna, know you think you're old enough to know what's best for you and know you're at the age where you don't want to listen to your father. But as your father, who's always loved you, I'm asking you not to see Bob Wiley. Anna grabs the Anna puppet and puts it on, defiantly. don't understand the problem! Bob's a nice guy! Bob Wiley is a patient. He followed me here from New York which is bizarre. But even if it weren't bizarre, my daughter seeing a patient that I'm treating is entirely inappropriate. Bob said you're not treating him here. He's right there! So if you're not treating him while he's here, then he's not a patient while he's here, is he? And have the right to see him! She throws the puppet at Marvin then runs to her friends. Anna, you're acting out! Bob's a perfectly nice guy! He's intense and sensitive and he listens which is more than can say about you. Bob! Marvin stands a moment and watches. He is stunned. Anna, come back! Anna runs to Bob and takes his arm. They start walking down the shore. Marvin is dumbstruck. Siggy lies on the deck, looking up at the sky through binoculars. Fay is in the kitchen, arranging driftwood. She comes to the back door of the cottage. Why don't you come in and talk about it? Siggy says nothing. Just because your father dropped you in the water doesn't mean you can't trust me. You sleep with him. You're his spy. Marvin enters, looking absolutely stunned. Leo, you've upset Siggy. Marvin stares blankly at Fay then shuffles up the stairs. Leo...? Again Marvin doesn't answer and Fay starts towards him. That's right, go to him! You always do. Fay stops, looks at Siggy then goes upstairs after Leo. Siggy lies back down and peers through the binoculars. As he does, a grotesque pops into Siggy's field of view. He sits up with a start. Bob and Anna are standing over him. Hey, Siggy. Oh. Hi, Bob. You scared me. Sorry. Didn't mean to sneak up on you. Siggy lies back down and looks through the binoculars, clearly not interested in being social. Bob looks at Anna. She shakes her head. Dad's at it again. can tell. (to Siggy) Another vacation that's not a vacation, right? What's with him and diving? Maria Shriver's not gonna watch me dive! Marvin is prostrate on the bed, Marvin puppet still on his hand, staring at the ceiling. Fay enters. She sits down next to Marvin and strokes his hair. Leo, Siggy is really upset. Marvin says nothing. Leo... Marvin looks at his wife. Fay, I'm a failure. What? Our daughter, our only daughter, has fallen for a brilliant manipulator twice her age. Leo, for god's sake talk sense. Anna and Bob! Siggy is standing on the diving board, ready for his approach. Bob and Anna watch from the pier. Next door the Guttmans sit watching. Face a fear and it goes away. Okay. I'm facing it, now what do do? Hit it. Fast. While it isn't looking. Siggy takes a deep breath, summons up his courage, and makes his approach. He springs but can't dive. My mind says "yes yes" but my body says "no no". It's hopeless. If I'm not hopeless, nothing's hopeless... Bob steps onto the board. He "baby steps" out to the end where Siggy is standing. Let's try something saw in a pirate movie. Marvin is down the hall in the bathroom, dousing his face with water. Fay stands in the bedroom. For God's sake, I'm even a failure in my own book! Can you believe it? In Chapter 2, wrote that a healthy adolescent girl can never have a sublimated father complex and my daughter has one. It's a brief flirtation, honey. Anna's perfectly healthy. Then you're saying the book's wrong? Better that than Anna. Marvin washes his face some more then looks up. Fay, my god! Marvin walks into the room, water dripping off his face, looking like a man who's just seen his own death. Leo, what? Leo, what is it? I'm going on national television tomorrow -- to promote a fraud! Bob is standing near the end of the diving board holding Siggy by the hips. Siggy is hanging over the water, hands and head down, ready to enter the water diving. Anna is watching. So are the Guttmans. Don't think about boiling oil! I'm not. Or searing acid! I'm not! Our Father, we commit this soul to the sea. Bob gently releases Siggy. Siggy falls into the water, diving. Anna applauds. So do the Guttmans. Siggy resurfaces and throws a jubilant fist in the air. Yeah! Fay holds Marvin's head in her bosom, stroking him. I'm doomed! No you're not. I'll be a laughing stock! No you won't. You've blow this way out of proportion, Leo, and you have to get control. Now try your breathing. Okay. (breathes hard) I'm being ridiculous. (more breaths) You're right. He walks around breathing exaggeratedly. It's a brilliant book... Our daughter's fine... I'm great. That's right. Applause from outside can be heard in the room. Fay goes to the window. Fay, do you remember a Carswell Fensterwald? My God, Leo, look at this. The name is so familiar but -- Leo, Siggy's diving! What? Marvin looks out the window. He sees: Bob releases Siggy for another perfect dive. I'll put a stop to this! Marvin storms out of the bedroom. Leo! Siggy stands at the end of the board, more confident now, getting ready to do another dive. Bob holds Siggy again but this time Siggy doesn't need much help if any. Marvin charges down the dock, Fay right behind him. Enough. Let go of him! That's enough! Leo! Dr. watch this! (leaning over to dive) Watch, dad! Stop diving this instant! Dad! Marvin leaps onto the diving board, shaking it. Bob loses his grip and Siggy falls off the board, doing a back buster. Bob falls in too. Ow! (daggers at Marvin) You bastard! Leo! Look at what you're doing! Leo, look at yourself! Everybody looks at Marvin, standing alone on the board. He realizes that he's lost all control, something he never does. He looks at the Guttmans. What are you staring at? had every right to buy this house! (looking in the water) Where's Bob? Where's Bob?! Anna and Fay dive into the water. They go under looking for Bob. Bob is off a bit by himself, wringing out his clothes. Fay, Anna and Siggy sit toweling off. Marvin comes out of the house and talks in low tones to his family. Listen, everybody, I'm not wrong often, but when am, admit it. I'm sorry. mean it. How can make it up? There is a pause. Anna and Siggy and Fay look at each other. Knocking Bob in the water was awful. What if he hadn't known how to swim? But he did. I'm not saying was right, but Bob can do a lot of things no one thought he could do. Anna, Fay and Siggy are silent. Look, said was wrong now I'd like to forget it. I'd like you all to accept my apology. What about Bob? What about Bob?! Don't you think you should apologize to him? at the outdoor shower, rinsing off his clothes. He can't hear the family but he can see they're talking about him and he's giving them his best hang-dog looks. will not apologize to Bob. Why not? Because won't. Honey, why are you so hostile towards the poor man? Because he's a patient, Fay! Don't you get it? He's not a patient, he's a person. And a nice one. think we should invite him for dinner. Dinner?! Dinner. Really?! The poor fellow's devastated. Fay heads towards Bob. Marvin turns to her. He keeps his voice low to keep from being heard by Bob, but inside he is about to explode. don't want Bob for dinner, Fay. Leo... don't want Bob for dinner, Fay. want to think about my interview. Leo is trying not to explode. Fay hangs in the balance. Do it, mom. Invite him. You'd be making family history. It'd be the first major thing you've done on your own since I've known you! Right is right, Leo Marvin. Fay heads to Bob. Marvin's mouth falls open. Testing 1, 2, 3. Testing. For the next few seconds we will be conducting a test of the emergency broadcast system: Fay talks to Bob. Anna heads over to him too. Marvin stands speechless, ready to commit hari-kari. Dusk has descended over Lake Winnipesaukee. The glow of the moon, the stars, and lights from the other cottages along the lake shore provide peaceful illumination. The Marvin family -- and Bob -- are dining out on their deck overlooking the lake. Marvin sits silent, holding in his anger. Bob, swinging at occasional moths, sits next to Siggy. Get away. Get away! Ring around the moon. Rain coming soon. (edgy to Siggy) Gee, is that true? It's superstitious nonsense. Anna and Fay exit the cottage carrying trays of food. (to Fay and Anna) That looks scrumptious. Anna smiles and hands the first plate of food to Bob. Marvin sees this and crosses his arms. He shoots a death stare at Anna. She defiantly shoots it right back. Bob sees this exchange of looks. Did do something? No, Bob. It's fine. Eat up. Leo. Fay looks at Marvin and shakes her head "no". (eating) Mmmm. Mmmmm. This sure is good. Mmmm. Mmmmm. Mmmmm. Would you please stop that? Oh. Sorry, Leo. Would you pass the salt? And don't call me Leo. I'm sorry. You said in your office that could call you Leo. That was in my office. In my home you will call me Dr. Marvin. Marvin snaps the salt down next to Bob. Bob looks helplessly at Fay. Fay puts a hand on Bob's arm. (low) He's nervous about the interview tomorrow. Don't take it personally. (to Marvin) Hey, that's right, heard about your upcoming debut. Congratulations. Marvin nods and eats. Bob throws salt over his shoulder then salts his food. Your book's going to do a lot of people a lot of good, Le-- Dr. Marvin. I'm walking proof of that. Marvin chokes on the food he's eating. Siggy slaps his dad on the back. Marvin keeps coughing. Dad? Sweetheart? Marvin turns red and points to his throat. He falls to the deck on his side. Bob stands. Don't panic! know what to do! Bob hurries to Marvin, lies beside him, and administers the Heimlick maneuver. On the second try, Marvin's throat clears. Marvin lies in Bob's arms, coughing. Dad, you okay? Daddy?! Honey?! Marvin says something. Fay leans over him to hear. Leo, are you okay? said..., get him off me! Bob lets go of Marvin. Marvin coughs and crawls away. Bob, you saved him! Incredible! Wonderful! Thank you! Fay helps Marvin gets to his feet. Suddenly, there is a flash of lightning. Bob jumps. Rain begins to fall. Marvin looks up. Told you so. The rain outside is coming down in buckets. Marvin is in the living room, re-straightening the furniture and art ever so meticulously. He adjusts a diploma over the mantle. Anna, Fay, Siggy and Bob are in the kitchen, doing the dishes. "I'm singing in the rain, Just singing in the rain, What a glorious feeling, Bob throws his pack of Kleenex into the trash. I'm happy again! Bob retrieves the pack of Kleenex from the trash. walk though the kitchen With a bowl full of chicken (puts the chicken in the fridge) I'm singing, I'm singing In the rain." Anna and Fay and Siggy start a dance. Marvin enters. Look, tomorrow morning is very important and I'd like to call it a night. don't want to be rude but think it's time for Bob to sing his way home. (re: the rain) Honey, you don't expect Bob to walk back in this do you? Did say that? I'll drive him. The car's still in town, daddy. What? You said to leave it, remember? We walked home. Marvin seethes then looks darkly at Anna. The rain's bound to let up. Bob can go then. What if it starts up again while Bob's on the way? (nastily) He can borrow my slicker. Marvin stands staring out the window like he'd like to murder the rain that is still coming down in torrents. Bob is on the couch, sitting alone, wearing Marvin's yellow slicker, looking unwanted. Anna, Siggy and Fay sit quietly, watching Marvin. Bob looks at Fay and shrugs like he's sorry. Fay puts a sympathetic hand on Bob's. Leo. Shsh. Leo... Quiet. It's letting up. There is a crash of thunder that shakes the rafters. Marvin reaches out and slowly scratches the window, creating a tiny squeaking sound. Fay walks to him. (low) Leo, we can't make the poor fellow sit here all night. Let's let him stay over. Stay over? Honey, Maria Shriver's coming in the morning. Maria Shriver! You want some guy sleeping on our couch when Maria Shriver gets here? He almost laughs at the idea. There's an extra bed in Siggy's room. Bob, would you like to spend the night? Well Do you have a dacron pillow? That's a great idea! Fay! Are you sure I'm not imposing? Of course you are -- ! -- aren't. Anna, find an extra set of sheets. Siggy, get one of your father's robes for Bob. Fay shoots Marvin a dirty look then exits the room with Anna. Marvin claws the window making a bone chilling squeak. Siggy's room has twin beds arranged head to head against the corner. Bob, wearing one of Marvin's robes, enters. Siggy is hanging up his clothes. Did you find a toothbrush? Yeah. (belches and hits his chest) Excuse me. You care which bed? I'd prefer facing southeast. Marvin enters in his pj's. Fay is preparing for bed. Have you seen my new toothbrush? It should be in the bathroom. Well it should be but it's not! Fay shoots Marvin a dirty look then heads towards the bathroom. Just because you're nervous about tomorrow, Leo Marvin, doesn't give you the right to get snippy. If you can't handle the pressure, postpone the interview. Fay, it's not the interview -- mean am nervous about it -- but that's not what's bugging me. It's... him. Him who? Bob? No, Siggy. Yes, Bob! Who else? Leo, quiet. He'll hear you. Why shouldn't he hear me? Don't you get it, he's a sick person. multiphobic mess! He faked suicide... Isn't that a cry for help? ...Followed me up here from New York, wormed his way into my house. For all know, he's a mass murderer! Oh come on, Leo, he's a sweet guy. Perfectly harmless. You don't know that! Everything he's done violates the patient-doctor relationship. Now he's in there with our son! Bob and Siggy lie in Siggy's twin beds. Outside, lightning flashes. Bob chews his nails. Bob? Yeah. How come you go to dad? Are you really sick or just maladjusted? Sick. You ever had a bee buzz your face that wouldn't go away? Sure. Once or twice. When was twelve, had one buzz me for three weeks. Lightning strikes again. Bob bites his nails. He stands and paces a bit. He notices some books in Siggy's bookcase. Whoa. You got some heavy stuff here. Denial of Death, Fear and Trembling, Sickness Unto Death. Those are dad's. He lets you read this stuff? He hid them but found them. Bob looks in one, shudders, then puts it back on the shelf. Bob? Yeah? Are you afraid of death? Sure. Are you kidding? What do you do about it? mean, how do you cope? Well... The way figure it, if it weren't called "death", it wouldn't be so bad. mean what if it were called "dink"? Dink? Then it would be fine. We'd say "Grandma dinked." "The garbage man dinked." My turtle just dinked. Exactly. Then we wouldn't worry anymore. Hey, you're right! 'Course we'd still have to worry about Barrett's Esophagus and Black Water Fever and Tourette's Syndrome. What's Tourette's syndrome? Fay and Leo lie near sleep. Suddenly, from the other room, comes a loud barrage of profanity. Fay and Marvin spring out of bed. Bob and Siggy are jumping up and down on their beds, spouting profanity at each other. Marvin and Fay rush in. What is going on in here?! Bob and Siggy jump under the covers. Sorry, Dad. Sorry. asked you a question! Tourette's Dad. You know, Dad. Yeah, Dad... Leo... Dr. Marvin. Marvin glares at Bob. Fay nudges Marvin. It's kids being kids, Leo. don't want to hear another peep out of this room. I'm trying to get some sleep around here! Tomorrow is the most important day of my career! is coming here. Maria Shriver is coming here. Millions will be watching. And buying! I'm sorry, Dad. We'll stop. We got carried away. We won't do it again. Marvin stares at Bob. want you out by six thirty. Understand. Maria Shriver comes at seven, want you out by six thirty. Sure. Would you like something for sleep? What? I've got Valium if you need it. don't need Valium. Halcyon? Seconal? need peace and quiet! I'll be quiet. And I'll be peace. Bob nudges Siggy and they try to contain their laughter. Marvin glares at them then storms out. Fay comes up and tucks them into their beds. It's my fault, Mrs. we should have been quieter. We just have to get him through Maria Shriver. Sleep tight. Don't let the bed bugs bite. Bed bugs! It's just an expression. Oh right. 'Night. She turns out the light and pulls the door closed. Mrs. Fay opens the door. Would you mind leaving it cracked? Fay smiles and leaves the door cracked. clearing storm, right after dawn. Three vans from Morning" wind along the lake towards town. Through the window we see Siggy and Bob sound asleep in their beds. the clapboards to Leo and Fay's room where Fay lies sound asleep and Marvin lies looking at his watch. It lets out a series of beeps and he stands and exits. back to Siggy's room where Marvin knocks, loudly. Six o'clock, rise and shine! Siggy sits up. Bob doesn't stir. Marvin enters, watch beeping, and walks to Bob. He puts the watch next to Bob's ear. Rise and shine. Six o'clock. Rise and shine, rise and shine. Bob doesn't move. Fay and Anna enter in robes. Bob... Bob! He shakes Bob's bed. Bob sleeps through incredible shaking and yelling from a desperate Marvin then suddenly sits up with a start. Everybody leaps back. Marvin is in the living room, dressed in his stiffest casuals from Bean, nervously adjusting his "set". Fay is in the kitchen, preparing food. Momentarily, Bob comes bounding down the stairs. (more and more rapidly) Baby stepping down the stairs. Baby stepping down the stairs! He turns and sees Marvin. Hello! Is this a beautiful day or what? Marvin walks to Bob. (gritted teeth) Leave. had the most incredible dream last night, -- Go. Is this something you want me to work out on my own? Now! Well. You've been right about everything so far. God, therapy is a fascinating process. 'Bye Mrs. Thank you for everything. 'Bye Anna. See you later. 'Bye Bob. See you later today, maybe. Don't be a stranger. You know me. won't. (towards the upstairs) So long, ass wipe of the universe! (coming to the railing upstairs) 'Bye dog pissing barf brain! Siggy! Bob! Bob exits out the front door. Later, fart smelling douche bag! (beat) Maria Shriver's here. Marvin turns red in the face. He walks to the door. and her entourage - video crew, etc. -- approach the door. Dr. Marvin, Maria Shriver. (swallows nervously) Hello. hope we're not too early. May we come in? Marvin steps aside. The crew enters with equipment. Sure. thought by the fireplace... It's a fireplace shot, fellows. Bob walks to the side screen door, pushes his nose to it and watches. Marvin sees this and motions Bob away with his hand. Bob waves back. Two men approach Marvin. I'm the Director, Howie Katrell. This is Lenny Burns, our Producer. Marvin shakes their hands. Maria admires the house. This is even nicer than the pictures. Thank you. Is this your family? Oh, sorry. This is my wife, er, Fay. My daughter Anna, and my son... Marvin is so nervous, he's forgotten Siggy's name. I'm Siggy, dad. How's Arnold? Can you get me his autograph? Sigmund... think can swing it. Really? Wow! Maria looks at Bob who is still standing in the screen door. Hi. I'm Maria. I'm Bob. He opens the screen door and shakes her hand. This done, Marvin closes the screen door on Bob. Bob's a patient. He was just -- Wow. Baby Stepper in action. Neat idea. Howie, Dr. Marvin's gonna have a patient on with him. Fine. Let's can the fireplace shot and -- Now wait just a minute! That's okay. We can still use the fireplace. Phil, what say we set up over there and... Bob opens the screen door and walks back in. Marvin sees this and can't believe it. Ms. Shriver, -- You know the more think about this, Doctor, the more love it. mean who better to testify to the effectiveness of your book than one of your patients. think it's a two parter, Lenny. do to. Great idea, Dr. Marvin. Terrific. He slaps a disbelieving Marvin on the back. The room is bright lit for and the crew is making last minute adjustments. Marvin and Bob sit on the couch, both nervous wrecks, Bob clutching his copy of Baby Steps and an air sickness bag, Marvin clutching a copy of his book. Marvin's diplomas and art are displayed prominently on the "set". The proud family looks on. Fay leans in with a lint roller, rolls Marvin's shirt, kisses him, and backs out. Live feed in ten. Knock em dead, honey. Howie, don't like that there. crew person rushes up and takes down Marvin's diploma. Five -- four -- three -- Can use the bathroom? Howie points at Maria. Good Morning. We're live in the beautiful Lake Winnipesaukee summer home of Dr. Leo Marvin, author of the newest sensation in therapy, Baby Steps. Also with us is Dr. Marvin's patient, Bob Wiley. Good morning, Dr. Marvin. Bob. Good morning. Marvin shoots Bob a dirty look. Bob smiles innocently. Suddenly Bob takes out his air sickness bag and holds it out as if to throw up in it. After a long beat, Bob puts it back. False alarm. Sorry. Bob smiles. Marvin turns beet red. Dr. Marvin, it takes a remarkable amount of confidence in your methods to bring on a patient with you. What in particular about Bob's prior condition would you like to share with us? Marvin looks at Bob. tiny, sadistic smile comes across his face. There are a million things he'd like to say about Bob -- to humiliate him, punish him, discredit him, ridicule him, vilify him, pillory him -- on national Nothing. Nothing? Nothing in particular you think we should know? No. Hum... Well... (pause) Let me try you, Bob. She smiles at Bob. Bob takes out his air sickness bag again. He holds it for a long time then puts it away. He smiles. Okay. Have you been a patient of Dr. Marvin's for a long time? Long time? wouldn't call it a long time. (looking at Marvin) What? Three or four days? Days?! Carswell Fensterwald sits watching Marvin and Bob on Marvin is a bumbling wreck, trying to save this one. Well... you see... was..., he was... was..., following his case through..., another psychiatrist... He thought was, er, the perfect doctor for the case. Because of my book. Ah. Why you sly dogs, he was right! want to say that if more wisdom, or more empathy, or more pure intelligence exists than exits in this man, want to know about it. Do you know that he actually had me sleep here last night? In his jamies, using his toothbrush! That's a very unusual technique. Fensterwald pounds his chair and howls with glee. Well -- I'll say and I've been to them all. Doctors who made you beat pillows. He demonstrates by beating a couch pillow. Doctors who make you scream. Bob suddenly screams. Marvin jumps. But this doctor has something simple. Baby Steps. Bob holds up Baby Steps then stands and walks back and forth in front of Marvin. He holds the book so that it can be seen by the camera. Baby step across the room. Baby step across the room... He leans and looks into the camera. Are you getting the book? Bob plops back on the couch. Let me tell you what used to be like before met Dr Bob puts his arm around Marvin. Eleven years ago was not the man you see today. Eleven years ago... The vans are loading up. Maria, Lenny and Howie stand at the door saying good-by. Marvin hovers in the background, in shock. Bob, that stuff about yourself was refreshingly honest. Could we talk to you again in a few months to update your progress? Sure. As long as my doctor gives permission. Marvin tries to force a smile but can't. staff photographer comes over, places Bob and Maria in his frame and snaps a picture. The people head off. Thank you for your hospitality, Mrs. Marvin. Anytime! Maria and leave. The family and Bob move back into the house. Looking like a zombie, Leo closes the door. He stands still for a long moment. I'm... ruined! Ruined? My career... Everything I've worked for..., over! Marvin ambles across the room like a cripple. The family watches in shock. But daddy... Suddenly Marvin turns on Bob. Get out. Is it something, said? Marvin moves at Bob, backing him towards the front door. Seeing Marvin's rage, Bob backs out and Marvin closes the door. After a moment there's a knock. Marvin opens it. Is this aversion therapy? Okay. Marvin slams the door again. The family is stunned. My god, Leo, what's got into you? Dad, you're over reacting. What about Bob? The doctors and their wives sit rapt, listening to Doctor 3. Yeah, what about Bob? What about Bob? Dad... Daddy, look at your behavior. What are you doing? What am doing? What am doing?! He strides across the room. He finds his electronic organizer, opens it, and pushes buttons. Wednesday... Afternoon... He holds out the organizer for family to see the readout. I'm going sailing! Sequence omitted from original script. Bob walks down the road, upset, talking to himself. The fam is hurt. I've hurt them. didn't mean to. Certainly they realize that. I've hurt the fam. Hurt the fam. I've hurt the fam. The Marvin station wagon, Marvin driving, passes. Bob sees Fay, Siggy, and Anna turn and wave. Hi fam! (pause) Bye fam! The car speeds on. hurt the fam. Marvin's family climbs aboard a small sailboat. Marvin pulls a line onto the deck, then the boat glides out into the lake. Bob wanders, looking lost, mumbling. could apologize. But then I'd have to go back and I'm not sure they want me. hurt the fam. That much know. Hurt the fam. Hot dog, bub? Bob looks idly up. with a cart is talking to Bob. (distracted) Sure. The hands Bob a hot dog. Bob hands him money then wanders off. Families of tourists stroll. Bob stands staring dejectedly out at the lake. Unthinkingly, he takes a bite of the hot dog then turns. This has to be some kind of test. know hurt them but they have to know didn't mean it. If it's a test... ate a hot dog. Bob stares at the hot dog like it just spoke Greek. The tourists turn and stare. Marvin stands at the helm, sailing the small sailboat across lake. The breeze blows Marvin's hair, making him look wild. Anna suns. Siggy casts a fishing line. Fay stares into nowhere. mean it's summer time right, what could their audience be, five million? Most of them hardly pay attention anyway, right? The point is, the book got on. It couldn't hurt sales, that much could it? Of course not. mean... It's a disaster, Fay! Honey... Hey, look. Isn't that Bob? Off the bow, a small motorboat is approaching. Bob is steering a small motorboat towards the sailboat. He holds half of his hot dog out like a trophy. Dr. Dr. I've had a breakthrough! ate a hot dog! I'm driving a boat! Thanks to you! It is Bob! It's Bob! Oh no. Hey, Bob! Anna and Siggy wave. Marvin's eyes narrow. Bob keeps shouting as he motors closer. I'm really making progress now! feel like a whole new world is opening up! He keeps getting closer. My childhood memories are rushing over me like a flood! Marvin turns the rudder and comes about. Coming about! He turns the sailboat and heads the opposite direction from Bob. Daddy, what are you doing? (at Bob's boat) Go away! What? Daddy, he's trying to talk to you. Dad... Marvin keeps sailing away. But Bob's boat is faster and it's gaining. Marvin sees this, jerks the rudder again, and turns ninety degrees. He stands and shouts at Bob. Go away, do you hear me!! Leo, the boom! The boom hits Marvin square in the chest, and knocks him overboard. Daddy! Leo! Dad! Marvin bobs in the water. The pilotless sailboat heels away. Bob dives in, swims to Marvin, and grabs him by the chin in a traditional life-saver hold. As Siggy gains control of the sailboat, Bob begins doing the side stroke towards the distant shore with Marvin in tow. never had a father, really. Dad left one morning and never came back. My earliest memory is mom with a suitcase. Do you think that's significant? Marvin is a prisoner in tow. He drags himself under water. Bob pulls him up and keeps swimming. I'd like to do some free association about my infancy: beachball. dog. frog. log. Poodle, noodle, doodle... As Bob swims Marvin towards the shore, going on and on with this inane free association... Marvin, dry and dressed now, exits the house and gets in the station wagon. He honks. Momentarily Bob runs out. (at the house) Will do! Bob gets in the car. Affectless, Marvin stares at him. Wherever we're going, Fay wants us home by seven. No problem. Marvin accelerates away, rudely. Rain is falling. The wipers swish. Marvin drives through pastoral New Hampshire countryside focused, perhaps too intently, on the road. Bob sits beside him. It's a combustible relationship, isn't it? Is it just you and me or is it you and everybody? (pause) So what's the big surprise? Intensive psychotherapy. Really?! Isn't that what you came here for? Yeah! But what brought this on now? You're ready. Wow. This is exciting. The rain has let up. Marvin pulls up to a gated estate sporting expansive grounds and a hotel sized main building. Marvin stops at a guard gate. Leo Marvin to see Dr. Tomsky. The checks a list. He waves Marvin through. Main building doctor. They're expecting you. Where are we? Therapy land, Bob. twentieth century theme park of the mind. They drive. The lines look short today. Marvin gets out and so does Bob. man Leo's age, approaches. Hello, Leo. Long time no see! Is this our friend? Bob Wiley, this is your new pal, Dr. Tomsky. New pal? What's wrong with my old pal? Tomsky makes a motion of his head. Two big attendants move to either side of Bob. Let us show you to your room. They lead Bob off. Hey! Don't touch me! have seizures! Dr. Dr. They take Bob into a building. Marvin turns to Tomsky. really appreciate your helping me out on this, Kenneth. Tomsky holds out a form for Marvin to sign. He does. can only hold him for twenty four hours, Leo. Without staff corroboration. I'm not worried in the least, Kenneth. I'm sure your entire staff will corroborate. With intensive treatment he should be out in about -- fifty years. Marvin hands the clipboard back to Tomsky. They shake. The Marvin station wagon pulls into the driveway, radio is blasting, playing a tape of Neil Diamond. Marvin exits it, dancing as he sings along. "I'll be what am, solitary man. Marvin enters singing. Siggy and Anna see him. Dad, you okay? (to "Oklahoma") "Okay, Anna Mae, Leo Marvin's okay Leo Marvin, he's okay!" Where's Bob? Yeah, dad, where's Bob? Can't a man enjoy himself on vacation? Dad -- ? Bob sends his regrets but he had to take a trip. What kind of trip? thought you were working with him. was. Then why'd he go on a trip? Why does a man climb a mountain, Anna? Because it's there. Marvin turns up the music and dances. Anna and Siggy stand stunned. He didn't even say good-bye? He just left? It's not like Bob not to say good- bye. That's why he left, you see. He just wasn't himself. (pause) He'll write. Dad, if you did something to Bob... Anna, what do you take me for? (pause) Everything's fine. Marvin, looking perfectly content, turns off the music, goes to his chair, picks up Freud's Understanding Dreams, the book he's been trying to read since he arrived here. Siggy and Anna stare at him suspiciously. Fay enters carrying the cordless phone. Leo, a Dr. Tomsky says it's urgent. Marvin takes the phone and walks into the kitchen. Anna and Siggy look even more suspicious. Momentarily Leo strides out of the kitchen and walks out the front door. Leo, where are you going? Out. Just like that? (pause) Be home by seven, okay? Marvin doesn't answer because he's gone. Something's rotten in Winnipesaukee. Marvin's car screeches up. Marvin hurries out. Bob sits around a table with Tomsky and several members of the who are laughing. Wait, I've another one. Who knows the difference between Freud and Moses? He sees blank, expectant faces, waiting for a punchline. Well if you don't know, I'm going to another clinic! All laugh. Tomsky sees Marvin enter and stands. Excuse me. So a psychiatrist and a psychologist go into a bar and order Bloody Marys... Tomsky joins Marvin in the hall. In the other room we see Bob continuing to joke with the staff. Kenneth, you have been duped by a textbook narcissist. brilliant neuropath! Brilliant enough to dupe my entire staff? doubt that. Tomsky stuffs a paper into Marvin's shirt pocket. I'm giving you back his admitting forms, Leo, to save you any embarrassment. Embarrassment?! It's perfectly natural for a patient to bond with his analyst. It's a normal part of therapy. If you want to be rid of him, simply take him back where you got him and go home. That's easy for you to say! He's human crazy glue! If it were that simple do you think I'd be here? You should have never let him sleep in your pajamas, Leo. His problems don't go away just because you want them too. Whose side are you on?! Relax, Leo. I'm relaxed! Take a vacation. I'm on vacation!! Are you sure? Maybe you should check in here for a few days and get a handle on things? Marvin looks at Tomsky, amazed at the implication of this statement. Marvin drives. Bob rides. Marvin looks ready to explode. Intensive psychotherapy? -- boy, you weren't kidding, were you? mean even Dr. didn't think needed that. (pause) Look have an idea -- how are your afternoons? mean since we're here together with nothing else to do, what say we work from two to four, something like that? The Marvinmobile screeches to a halt and Marvin jumps out. He rushes around the car and opens Bob's door. Get out! Get out of my car, get out of my life, don't ever come back! Marvin drags Bob out of the car and slams the door. Are you saying you'd prefer mornings? Marvin gets back in and floors it. He speeds off. What is this, isolation therapy? Bob stands alone on the road. You're the doctor. Birds chirp and crickets crick. pick-up truck passes and Bob sticks out his thumb. The pick-up stops. Marvin is about to bust a vessel. Telephone poles shoot by like pickets on a fence. Behind him a siren wails. In his rear-view mirror, Marvin sees a motorcycle cop approaching. No! You won't catch me!! The motorcycle cop is writing a steaming Leo Marvin a ticket. passing pick-up slows and Bob leans out the passenger window. Need any help? No! Remember: be home by seven. The pick-up drives on. The motorcycle cop hands Marvin a ticket. Marvin gets back into his car, throws it in gear, and the car jerks backwards into the guardrail. Shit! Marvin throws it into forward. The car, fender dented, tears away. Sitting on the porch of his house, an watches as Marvin's car slows to a stop out in the road. The tire under the dented fender is torn to ribbons by the metal and the car is now riding on the rim. Marvin stops, gets out of the car, and looks at the tire. First he ruins my life, now he ruins my tire! Cursing to himself, Marvin walks to the trunk and removes a jack. God! Damn! Son of a bitching! Bob! comes out of the house and joins the old man. They watch in silence as Marvin jacks up his car. As he twists and grimaces and kicks to get off the lug nuts, it starts to Shit piss crap! Son of a bitching douche bag asshole! come out on the porch and watch. As Marvin struggles, the car slips off the jack and slams to the pavement. Marvin begins kicking the tire and hitting it with the jack. What about Bob?! Think about Bob! What about Bob? What about Bob? Mumbling to himself, soaking wet, and filthy with tire grime, Marvin walks to his house. He kicks open the front door. I'm home! Lights go on. Thirty people stand around the room with party favors and drinks. In unison they yell: Surprise! (then sing:) "Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you! Happy Birthd... The singing tapers into silence. Flabbergasted by Marvin's disheveled appearance, the party guests stare. Fay and the kids approach, tentatively. Dad, what happened? Nothing. Leo, look at yourself! Just a little car trouble, hon. I'm fine. Fay is speechless. So are Siggy and Anna. Not wanting to let things sink, party-hardy well-wishers approach Leo. Happy Birthday, Leo. Some night to have car trouble. You almost missed your own surprise party! Happy Birthday, Dr. Marvin turns and stares at Bob. couldn't miss your birthday! Marvin suddenly leaps at Bob and grabs him by the throat. He pushes him through three rooms of the house, choking him. want you dead! Dead, you hear me, dead! Marvin falls on the floor on top of Bob. Guests go to pull him off. Marvin lies in bed in the darkened room. He can hear the party guests huddle outside in the hall, whispering. guest whom we recognize as the Doctor 3 from the boat, (the man who is telling this story), enters carrying his doctor's bag. He approaches Fay who is wringing her hands. Both speak in whispers loud enough for Marvin to decipher. I've never seen him like this, Phil. He's got this delusion about Bob Wiley being the cause of all his problems and don't know what to do. He's under a lot of stress, Fay. His book, his interview which frankly didn't go so well, his birthday. That's a lot to bite off all at once. I'll give him a sedative and he'll be fine. You really think so? Phil puts a hand on Fay's hand and nods. Bob sits on the couch beside Siggy. Anna approaches. You feeling better? I'm fine. It's your dad I'm worried about. How is he? Upstairs. Resting. can't understand why he'd attack you like that. Anna sits next to Bob. Bob sees George Stark, standing across the room, smiling at Anna. can't either. But one thing I've learned about psychiatrists: they're brilliant manipulators. trust your dad completely. I'm sure everything he's done has been to help me. (pause) How come you aren't making a move on George Stark? (glancing at George) Bob, we've talked about this. No, you've talked about it and I've listened. In my opinion, George Stark's smile is not Oedipal regression and it's not confused libido. It's one good looking guy drooling over you, Anna Marvin. Bob... Go ask if you can put your tongue in his mouth. hear it works every time. Anna smiles then summons her courage, and smilingly approaches George. He is clearly delighted. woman walks up to Bob. Hi. Fay said to introduce myself. I'm Lily, Leo's neurotic sister. We saw picture in Leo's office. Bob stands, delighted. pleasure. I'm neurotic too. Really, what a coincidence. Am disturbing you? Only in a good way. Sit down. She does. It must be nice having an analyst in the family. don't know, ask Leo. I'm an analyst too. You're kidding?! Sequence omitted from original script. Phil empties a large syringe into Marvin's buttock. He swats Marvin's behind and Marvin pulls up his pj's. That should give you some interesting ideas for your next book. You might even wake up feeling happy. doubt it. Phil, do you remember a classmate named Fensterwald? Carswell Fensterwald? Sure. Who could forget? I've forgotten and don't know why. Did anything unusual happen with him? You're joking. Do act like a man who's joking?! Relax, Leo. just can't believe you'd block something like that out. Carswell was at Harvard with us. You turned him in for cheating. What...? Don't you remember? You brought action against him for stealing your psychoanalysis notes and they booted him. The only place that would take him after that was University of Guadalajara. Marvin tries to speak but nothing comes out of his mouth. Tomsky watches with concern. Leo, is there something about Carswell that's disturbing you? Leo...? Thanks, Phil. Enjoy the party. Phil lingers then leaves, closing the door. Marvin begins shaking all over. As he does the bed rattles rapidly against the wall. Leo's losing it. He's no longer the same sane man. In the darkness we hear: Baby steps, make a plan. Fay sleeps soundly next to Marvin who is wide eyed, staring at the ceiling, twitching. Marvin pulls himself carefully out of bed and crawls on the floor to the door. Marvin, carrying his shoes, crawls outside. He tries to put his shoes on and falls flat on his face. He then pulls himself up and hobbles away. This is where the Marvin family was shopping when Bob first came to town. Marvin paces outside until the owner opens the front door for business. Marvin wanders through the hardware section, looking around. the owner, works behind the counter. Can help you, doctor? want to buy a gun. Okay. Fred walks to a case. I've got Winchesters. Colts. What do you plan on hunting? Er. An animal. This tall. Hundred and seventy pounds. Bermuda shorts. Take a look at this baby. It'll shoot through anything but it also leaves a clean wound. He hands Marvin a rifle. Marvin examines it. Your wife was in with that Bob fellow. Sure is a nice guy. (handing back the rifle) What do you have that leaves a messy wound? Fred is ringing up Marvin's purchase: two rifles and a box of shells. I'll need you driver's license, social security number, and you can pick them up on Friday... (checks a calendar) the 18th. The eighteenth? There's a two week waiting period in this state. can't wait two weeks! need these now! He grabs the rifles. Fred keeps a firm grip on them. Dr. Marvin, it's the law. Fred wins the tug-of-war. Marvin stares at him. What about explosives? Any waiting period there? Marvin, carrying a bag and singing to himself, walks up to the cottage. He looks around then kicks open the door. The place looks completely anonymous except for Gil in a bowl and Bob's bag of clothes. Marvin sits on the floor, filling a pair of milk cartons with gray powder. (singing) "Bob fell in to a Burning ring of fire. He went down down down And the flames went higher. And it burned burned burned, That ring of fire. The ring of fire." Marvin removes a wired mechanism from the bag and a timer. He delicately pushes the wires into the milk cartons then carefully ties on some fuse wires. He puts the milk cartons and wired mechanisms into a and puts it under Bob's bed. He begins laying the fuse wire along the floor towards the door. Marvin passed Gil, sitting on a table. Marvin picks up the bowl and puts it under the bed next to the bomb. He then goes back to laying the wire into the kitchenette. Marvin lays the fuse wire across room and out the door. He closes the door and starts to set the timer when he spots a note hanging on the nearby mailbox: (reading aloud) "Dear Mr. and Mrs. If I'm not here, I'm at the Marvins. Would you feed Gil? Thanks. Bob. Your denture adhesives arrived so put them in your mailbox. Enjoy. Bob. " Marvin seethes. He thinks a moment then heads back into the cottage. Momentarily he returns carrying the back pack and the long wire fuse. Bob, Anna and Siggy sit around watching Fay on the phone. Well if you hear from him, Donna, please call... Thanks. She hangs up. Nobody's seen him. She stands and gets her purse off the table. I'm going looking for him. Me too. Me too. Me too. Shouldn't somebody stay here in case he comes back? I'll stay. I'll stay. We'll leave him a note. She pauses then stops in front of Bob. Bob, I'm not defending Leo's recent behavior in any way, so please don't take this personally. However irrational the reasons, Leo is so upset with you that think it would be best if you weren't around when he comes back. Really? Yeah, mom. Why? Because say so, Siggy. (to Bob) Please don't think it's the way want it. It's just that Leo's not himself. It's not Bob's fault. Listen to your mom, Siggy. All of you get out of here, okay? I'll straighten up before go and when Dr. comes home, everything will be exactly the way he likes it. Bob you're such a dear. Take good care, all right? Fay hugs Bob. So does Anna. You give George a chance okay? Anna nods. Bob turns to Siggy who is upset. Bob holds out his hand. Give me leather, ass wiping bastard head. Siggy swats Bob's hand. Green puking piss-ant. The family and Bob exchange pregnant good-bye looks, then Fay and Siggy and Anna exit. Bye, fam. Bob watches as the Marvin family walks away. They wave. Bob waves back, sadly. He shuffles across the room. He stops at the puppets on the mantle. guess this is good-bye, fam. Bob shuffles to Marvin's chair. He stares at the book Marvin has been trying to read, Freud's Understanding Dreams then casually opens it. He reads for a moment, gets interested in it and sits down. He sits back in Marvin's chair, reading. Bob is asleep in Marvin's chair, Freud's Understanding Dreams open on his chest. Suddenly Marvin's face pops up at the window. He looks in, sees Bob, then ducks back down. Momentarily, the front door to the cottage is kicked open and there stands a seething Marvin. Get up and don't make a sound! Dr. Everybody's looking for you. Marvin brandishes the back pack. said shut up! Okay. You're the doc. Marvin, carrying the back pack, leads Bob outside. Bob looks relaxed. Where we going hiking? Into the woods. Is this is a new form of therapy? Yeah, Bob, it's death therapy. It's a guaranteed cure. Death therapy. like it. Marvin leads Bob into the woods beside the cottage. Bob sits on a stump. Marvin puts the back pack on Bob's shoulders then starts tying his hands behind him. Bob sits passively, letting him. This is pretty imaginative, Dr. Will this be in your new book? If it is, I'll dedicate it to you, how's that? Great. Ow. That hurts. Ow. Marvin keeps tying Bob's hands. What is this now, pain therapy? Exactly. Now yell and scream and suffer! Ow! Ahh! Ow! That really hurts. Marvin sets the timer then walks away. Say hello to Freud for me. Marvin walks out of the woods. Dr. this hurts! Love hurts. Marvin enters, looking happy. He goes to the stereo, puts on Neil Diamond's "Penny Arcade" and cranks it up loud, then goes to the window and opens it. (yelling to the woods) Music to die by, Bob! Marvin does a little dance and talks to himself. guess it was suicide, Fay. He tried it once, remember. Just goes to show, you never can tell. Bob sits trying to get comfortable. I'm worried about getting gangrene, Dr. think get the point! He struggles some more. (to himself) At least think get the point. (pause) Maybe I'm not supposed to sit here. (pause) Maybe I'm supposed to undo these outer knots... He begins struggling to untie himself. So that my inner knots..., these strong..., restricting..., inner knots... He gets a hand free. Will come undone too. Both hands free, Bob stands. Yes! Marvin is still dancing around, looking at his watch. He holds up five, four, three, two, one fingers then prepares for an explosion. Instead Bob opens the door. Ahh! Still wearing the back pack, Bob walks into the room. Death therapy cured me! Marvin runs across the room away from Bob. No! Yes! used to be so afraid of everything, it was like dying a thousand deaths a day. Now, that you showed me have only one death to be afraid of, I'm not afraid of anything anymore! Marvin runs out the back door of the house. Bob stands there watching him. Don't be so modest! Marvin runs out to the dock and tries to start the little motor boat that sits there. Bob stops at the back door of the house, casually tosses the back pack onto a chair, then follows Marvin. Dr. Bob walks out onto the dock. Marvin is working frantically to start the motorboat. Dr. I'm really cured! The house explodes. Debris rains down on Bob and Marvin. After it settles, the bust of Freud lands on the dock in front of them. Did somebody leave the gas on? Why won't you go away! disgraced myself on national television! No one will buy my book! My family's going to hate me! Dr. your family loves you. Marvin is about to attack Bob then stands limp, a beaten man. What's left of the house is now burning. The Guttmans have run out of their trailer. Burn. Burn! Burn!! In the distance, Dr. you have the crown jewels of England all around you. You have a wife with a generous heart. You have great kids and an incredible sister. Stay away from my sister! Dr. you have a fam! Marvin stares at Bob then takes a small can of gas from the old motorboat and pours gas on himself. The get closer. You know, I'm beginning to think you're an ingrate. What?! People are miserable all over the world and you're killing yourself? You should be ashamed. Don't talk that way to me! Maybe was wrong about you. Do you hear me?! Maybe you're not so good after all. Marvin leaps on Bob. I'll kill you! Marvin attacks Bob on the dock. Fire trucks arrive. Fay and the family drive up too. As a couple of and the family rush to separate Marvin and Bob... The doctors and their wives sit around Phil, stunned. Off their bow is the slab that was once the Marvin house. And they took him away. My god, it was insanity. Bob drove Marvin to complete insanity! What happened? Leo was taken to the Tomsky Institute for a few days for observation. He lost his medical license, of course. doctor can't try to kill one of his patients and expect to get away with it. Well thank god for that. (the other doctors stare daggers at her) mean..., you know... mean... (pause) Then what happened? Leo was returned to his family. Leo stands, small suitcase in hand, looking sad and fragile. Fay, Anna, Siggy, Lily and Bob get out of the station wagon and look at him. No one says a word, then Bob goes up and puts his arms around Leo. Leo stands motionless, shell shocked. Bob and the family rented a lakeside cottage where they could help Leo recuperate. Gil's bowl sits on a lawn table. In addition to Gil, the bowl now contains several baby guppies. Marvin lies on a deck chair, covered with a blanket, staring into nowhere. Bob is next to him, talking on a cordless phone. (into phone) understand. Sure. He hangs up and puts the phone down. (to Leo) Tough business. Bob makes some notes in his organizer then gets up. He grabs hold of both of Leo's shoulders. (reassuringly) I'm going over here. I'll be right over here. Leo doesn't look at him. zombie would seem more alive. Bob goes and joins the volleyball game. Okay, I'm with Siggy. Marvin sits staring into nowhere. The phone rings. Again. (almost inaudible) Phone. The volleyball game continues. (a touch louder) Phone. After another ring, he reaches for it. (listlessly affectless) Hello. May speak to Bob, please? (still staring into nowhere) Bob's... unavailable right now. Can... take a message? I'm Mr. Jameson with the Tucson school district. Bob contacted us about buying some toothbrushes but we're going to have to cancel the order. (writing) Tucson canceling order... Any message why? (on phone) It's not a priority right now. (writing) Not priority... right now. (pause) Why? Well... money's tight and... Sure. (pause) Though, you know there is another way to look at it. What's that? Well... if you gave a new toothbrush and taught dental hygiene to every student at your school... In the long run you'd save them thousands of dollars. mean look at the cost of dental bills. bet could have put my kids through college with what I've spent on fillings. That's an interesting point. It is, isn't it? (pause) Maybe you should try the toothbrushes. You might do a lot for education by saving teeth. Huh. never thought of that. (pause) tell you what. Tell Bob we'll take the order and see how it goes. Great. Marvin hangs up the phone. He affectless expression suddenly turns to one full of thought. Fay. Marvin sits up, gaining energy, even enthusiasm. Fay! The Marvin family hurries over. Leo Marvin now makes toothbrushes. Bob puts his arm around Leo as he gestures and talks more and more animatedly to his delighted family. The irony, of course, is that Bob brought the family closer than they'd ever been before. Harvey Green saw Leo last month and said he never looked happier. The doctors are stunned. My god. The poor bastard. And you thought you had nightmares. Unbelievable... What happened to Bob? The others jump in: "Yeah, what about Bob? What about Bob? What about Bob?" Bob married Lily and had triplets. He went back to school, got a degree in marriage-family-counseling, and now has a big practice on Park and 75th. Bob sits in the shrink's chair. Sitting in three chairs in front of him are a and Douche bag. Bastard head! Son of a bitch! (gently to the father) Try ass wipe of the universe. Ass wipe of the universe! The family look at each other. Tears well. They hug. Excellent. The doctors look at each other in astonishment. Wait a minute. You're not telling me that Bob Wiley is Dr. Robert Wiley, the psychologist?! That's exactly what I'm telling you. goes by. Phil yells to it. Hey Bob! Hello, Bob is surrounded by Lily Marvin, three toddlers and lots of friends. Smiling, Bob waves at the doctors. Wrote that huge best seller? What's it called? Bob's boat turns. On it's stern, in huge letters is it's name: "Vacation Therapy". Vacation Therapy! Exactly. Sold 2 million copies. who are dark green with envy. don't believe it! Pinch me! I'll never take another vacation as long as live! As the other doctors second in agreement, Bob's hugely happy houseboat motors off. We see Bob's big smile as he passes out Kleenex to his family then waves good-bye to the doctors. What About Bob? : Tom Schulman Alvin Sargent Laur